Blackwood Company

Waraji-sama

This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents either are the product of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, events, or locales is entirely coincidental.
Copyright © Waraji-Sama, 2020

“Be true to the thought of the moment and avoid distraction. Other than continuing to exert yourself, enter into nothing else, but go to the extent of living single thought by single thought.”― Tsunetomo Yamamoto, Hagakure: The Book of the Samurai

PROLOGUE—The Prince
Nelothan soldiers poured oil into the trench, separating the Withering from natural land stretching several miles, until finally disappearing into fog. It did not look as dangerous as the stories made it out to be. Pulling his cloak tighter, Jalen glanced at his father’s Serafe who had accompanied him to this cold northern country. He would not have been able to come, but High Lord Nightkar had granted Lord Warfink’s request to let Jalen visit the edge of the Withering.
Every High Lord’s son, including those of kings, came to see the Blackwood at some point in their early lives. It was important that highborn rulers understood the Blackwood, and what dangers it posed. That was what Jalen’s teachers, including his father, had told him since he was old enough to walk. It did not seem dangerous. A few soldiers with some casks of oil and a trench could hold the cursed land back.
The banners of keep Fellwind, a brown bear’s paw on a field of yellow, fluttered in the wind. “How many keeps prevent the Withering from spreading?” he asked the stiff-backed Serafe abreast of him. 
His studies said the Withering was some kind of unnatural plague that killed plants and trees as it spread. It preceded the Blackwood, an ever spreading forest of malicious evil. 
Trench soldiers set aside their casks, preparing to torch the oil. Fire was the only way to keep the Withering from spreading.
“Every league or so,” the Serafe said. “These keeps are the only line of defense.”
“What if the keeps are attacked?”
“They are lightly defended. They are not supposed to be used as a defense against attacking armies. Their purpose is to keep the Withering in check. Attacking them is a breach of the King’s Oath.”
The King’s Oath was a pact signed back when the Blackwood was first realized as a grave threat, signed many years ago.
Superstition, he thought, though even his father believed, and he was not a man to believe in superstition....
“Unchecked, the Withering spreads deeper into untainted land, allowing the Blackwood to encroach further,” the Serafe said. “Ignored, even a few days, and the Withering begins to creep. It is very dangerous.”
Jalen knew the stories, stories of armies made up of evil creatures that lurked inside the forest, and even on occasion, ventured out to snatch people from their beds. Crusaders had fought to keep back the dangers inside the forest, but those sorties never returned. That is what the stories had said. Now, men knew better, and kept the forest at bay with trenches and oil. But what could trained soldiers not defeat? One day he would lead a force and set the forest ablaze. It would not be that hard—damn the consequences. It would bolster the family name and increase house power.
His smile faded when a rider crested the hill. Torch bearers lit the oiled trench. They did it every single day, or else the Withering would spread.
The rider joined them. “Lord Jalen, Lord Nemen has commanded me to ask you to take shelter within the keep. A large force of Solen cavalry has crossed the border and is heading this way.”
Jalen raised an eyebrow, turned to the Serafe. “You said these keeps would not be attacked.” Word of war between Nelothar and Solen had been brewing for some time. It was possible the Soles were simply launching a raid. The Gods and every noble knew High Lord Nightkar had been doing the same to Solen, attempting to plunder wealth for his coming war with the Dar’nithie. An invasion seemed more likely, the way things were progressing between the two rulers.
“Normally they are not,” the Serafe said, “though tensions are high right now. Anything is possible.”
“My Lord?” the messenger said. “Will you join me as I take shelter?”
“No,” Jalen said. “We are leaving.” This accursed country was too cold for his bones.
A mile off, the Blackwood rustled loud enough to hear from where they were sitting atop their mounts. Strange black birds he had never seen before took flight, seemingly flying deeper over the forest. They did not look like birds of an herbivorous species. 
The messenger shivered, from cold, or from fear, Jalen did not know. “What is it?” he asked.
The fires inside the trench blazed. “I...do not know. Could be an attack from the Blackwood, my Lord. We should take shelter.”
Straightening in his saddle—he did not feel like wasting time going back to the keep—Jalen said, “I am not afraid of the forest, sir. And you seem to sense attacks from everywhere.”
“Winged Fell beasts have been known to fly for miles past the borders of the Blackwood,” the Serafe said. “Perhaps Lord Nemen is right to invite you into his keep, Lord?”
An attack from the Blackwood? Jalen wondered, breathing deeply, a slight shiver down his spine, though he made sure not show it. It was better to be safe, then to be dead, and if the Serafe was concerned... “Very well,” he said with a sigh. “Let us go to the keep.”
Despite his broadness, the young lord flicked his gaze back to the Blackwood with ware apprehension, caring very little for the Solendrian soldiers approaching.

ONE—Grief and Anger
After receiving a summons, Sorela was admitted into the castle dining hall by a short balding porter. The lord and lady were alone, as they had been most nights recently. 
A single servant in attendance refilled Lady Salain’s wine glass, then promptly backed away to assume a statuesque stance as Lord Warfink cut fervently at the meat in his plate, the muscles in his jaw pronounced as if he were chewing with more force than necessary for the soft meats of a nobleman’s meal. 
Lady Salain glanced at her husband, then tilted her head back to empty her second glass of wine—Sorela thought it was her second glass, it could have been her third—then dabbed at her glossed lips with what Sorela thought embarrassment. Her red rimmed eyes and nose seemed to almost match the hue of her wine.
An unfortunate development must have occurred, Sorela thought, looking at Lady Salain who seemed to be more distraught than usual, her swollen eyes following Sorela as she made her way across the forlorn chamber. Her footfalls echoed as she approached the dais. She laced her fingers together, proffering a small bow. 
Lady Salain’s plate was full of food, her silvers untouched, a common occurrence of late. Sorela did not like to see her in such a way. Her beauty was beginning to fade, her cheekbones more pronounced. She often encouraged her lady to eat. “You called for me?” A hint of smoke wafted from the crackling brazier to her left. It seemed to give off no heat, making the chamber feel forbidding, brooding. It could have been the company. She wondered why the hearth was not ablaze. 
Lady Salain glanced toward her husband jerkily, her eyes widening somewhat. He continued cutting, intent on his food, his knife scraping. Finally, for Lady Salain’s sake, Sorela broke the silence. “No news of your son, my lord?”
Lady Salain’s eyes filled, lips tremulous. Sorela pushed away a pang of emotion and raised her eyes when Lord Warfink’s silver clattered to his plate. Wiping his lips, he said, “None at all,” then slammed his fist. Silver clattered and Lady Salain jumped. Exhaling, he spread both hands out onto the table, made fists. Fingernails would have scraped if not for the smooth, polished surface of the table. Glancing at Lady Salain, his face softened. He took one of her hands into his. Then he turned his attention toward Sorela. “How long must we wait? I have sent over three envoys into Nelothar and none of them have returned!” His jaw clenched.
“Patience, my lord,” Sorela said, “is usually the best course of action when nothing else is to be done.” The words were hard to say in Lady Salain’s presence and would only cause the woman more stress.
His face sharpened. “They should have returned by now. I am through with patience, woman. Lord Nightkar has had them killed—I know it!”
Woman? Sorela served Lord Warfink, but she was not his servant. She was a servant of the Hall of Mages, and demanded respect by those she chose to give council to. She could leave any time she wished, though in this time of need, she decided to let some of her pride go, otherwise she would have had words for the man, high lord or not. 
In her mind, Sorela admitted that it was possible. High Lord Nightkar was a devious ruler and seemed capable of anything when it came to getting what he wanted. A war in this case, one he did not want.
I must council diligence, she thought. We do not fully understand the situation. “Perhaps their journey has been slowed by the cold of winter, or the war, my lord?” Sorela said soothingly. “Brashness—“
Lord Warfink straightened. “No, Lady Mage...I see no other alternative than to go to war.” 
Sorela closed her eyes, trying not to show her frustration. 
“Yes, it is brash,” he continued, “but I must save my son—he is my only heir.”
Warfink was not the first, nor the most reckless ruler Sorela had served. He always weighed the advice of council, which was one of the reasons she had chosen to advise him. But now, rational thought was being overtaken by fear. And anger.
“My Lord,” Sorela said. “Is that wise? What if young lord Jalen is simply too held up to return?” She paused for a moment, thinking. “Do not forget that you are also fighting a war in the west. Invading Nelothar could prove disastrous. Nelothar is strong, and even fighting on two fronts, Lord Nightkar will be a formidable adversary.” 
Lord Nightkar was a seasoned battle commander. The man had been instrumental in driving the Dar’nithie back to their islands, after all, and another war would only bring more death, poverty and desolation. No, these lands had seen enough destruction in recent years, starting with the invasion. There were too many wars raging.
“I have made up my mind, Lady Mage.” He paused for a moment. “I am sorry.”
Lord Warfink had nothing to be sorry for, he was not hers to command, but going to war would be a personal failure on her part. He knew the Hall of Mages promoted prosperity and tried to prevent war. His apology was as far as his sympathy went. He was going to do what he thought best for his son.
She must have failed concealing her emotions, because the nobleman took notice. He studied her, then began to rub his chin in thought, his eyes unfocused on the black floor tiles. Finally his eyes met hers again for several moments. He glanced at Lady Salain, then back to Sorela once again. “Do you believe you, can find my son, Lady Mage?”
Sorela was taken aback, but tried not to show it on her face. He knows I cannot, she told herself. But it was an opportunity she could not wave aside.
“If I let you do this, I will delay my invasion. Otherwise, I go to war as soon as some of my Serafe Commanders return from the fighting.”
Lady Salain left her chair and arced around the table. She took Sorela’s hands up in her own. “Please, Lady Mage.” She smiled, sniffling. “Sorela. You can do this! I know you can.”
Actually, she could not, not without permission from the High Council. Sorela admitted to herself that a mage did have the best chance to bring the boy back alive. Assuming he was in danger. A war would only confuse things and likely get the young lordling killed. 
Warfink’s face hardened when she did not respond. “You cannot?” He stood, chair scraping back. “Lady Mage, I fully understand what your Hall considers brash, but what else would you have me do, besides go to war? It is the only way.”
“Perhaps,” Sorela mused. Going to the Council would likely be futile, but she had to try—it was a chance to prevent yet another war. “If I were to discuss the situation with the Council, they may give me their approval to do as you ask.” Lady Salain’s hopes were beginning to rise. “It is unlikely,” she continued, not wanting to let her down. “I ask that you let me try, Lord.”
Lady Salain turned to her husband, hands clasped to her mouth. He grunted, obviously thinking for a moment. “Very well, I will give you this chance,” he said, jabbing a finger at her, “but only this one chance. Otherwise, I go to war.”
Sorela suppressed a smile, bowed. “Thank you, my lord. I will make the journey myself. I can ride faster than your couriers.”
Lady Salain smiled, tears running free now as she hugged herself. Lord Warfink glanced at her, worry plain on his face, then turned to Sorela. “See that you do, Lady Casen.”
Sorela paced back and forth, her hands on her hips as Leisa filled her saddle bags with clean shifts and riding dresses. Nothing fancy, she would be riding on the road alone. She could take care of herself, should she run into any trouble, but it was best to avoid those situations.
What will the council think? she wondered.
She was pulled from her thoughts when Leisa spoke. “Lady Casen, you should take me along.” The girl’s voice was very enthusiastic.
“No, child, the road is too dangerous. Besides I would have no use for you.”
Leisa folded another dress and placed it atop the others. “I might be ready for the Tanecine Mages,” she said hopefully. “You said so yourself.”
Sorela rounded on the girl. “When have I ever told you that, child?” The Council of Tenecine Mages was specifically convened to test and deliberate on whether or not a candidate would be suitable for training as a mage, with the recommendation of an actual mage, of course. 
Sorela’s handmaiden lowered her eyes. The girl probably overheard when she spoke to Captain Commander Caldren about intensifying Leisa’s physical training. She doubted Leisa had been intentionally eavesdropping on conversations not meant for her ears. If she had, Sorela would have to take punitive measures. 
Perhaps a beating. Or hard work.
It would have been better if she had not overheard. Now the girl will be overconfident. “Never mind that,” Sorela went on. “I said you might be ready. That does not mean that you are. You have not proven yourself yet, and with this war on, I might not be hard pressed to find the right circumstances in which you will be tested before my eyes. Be patient.”
Leisa smiled, becoming lighter on her feet, though with another sharp look, the girl turned to finish packing the saddle bags sitting at the foot of the bed.

TWO—Prepractice
With a satisfying sound, the stubborn knotted stump finally split in two. The knotted ones were most difficult, some almost impossible for Leisa to split.
 “You handle that axe almost as well as a man,” the wide shouldered stable boy, said, a saddle in arms. Jasen was barely older than Leisa, and had short black hair and ruddy cheeks. She stared at him flatly. He wasn’t unhandsome.
“Why aren’t you letting one of the manservants do that?”
“Lady Casen is away, so there is no need to keep the servants running about. They deserve a rest too, you know. Besides, I can cut wood.” The truth was, she was waiting on the captain. He trained her in the sword by order of the lady mage.
I do hope he shows, she thought, looking around. If he doesn’t, this will be the second time this month. 
For some reason lady Casen didn’t want anyone to know Leisa was being groomed as a candidate for the Hall of Mages.
“Maybe I can give you a hand after I saddle Korvin,” he said, tightening the saddle girth under the dapple grey’s belly. Korvin was the captain’s horse, which meant he would meet her. Good. She didn’t want to be standing there in the chilly air until night time again. What would they do tonight? She felt giddy, trying not to show it, knowing she shouldn’t be so excited. She didn’t actually know why the lady mage made her train in the sword. Mages didn’t need them. 
A few moments later, the captain entered the stable yard. Jasen straightened, moved quickly to bring Korvin out into the open. He handed the grizzled captain the reigns. “Is it a good day for riding?” He asked the stable boy. 
“Yes, sir, but there’s only another hour or so of sunlight.”
Leisa smiled. Jasen tried hard to sound like a soldier, but something was off. Maybe that leathery attitude soldiers had just wasn’t there. 
Captain Commander Caldren grunted. “I think I’ll take Korvin to that meadow on the west side of the castle grounds, he said casually. Leisa caught that hint of a nod. He mounted Korvin, then trotted the animal toward the castle gate.
Leisa split another stump, then made an excuse to go for a ride herself. Jasen gave her a quick rundown of the quirks of her new mount called Renar, since her usual choice was sick, correcting her after she called the animal, “the horse.” He hated it when the animals were not called by their proper names. She waved to him from atop Renar as she walked him out of the stable yard.
Leisa had asked Sorela why no one was to know about her training. The lady mage had not answered her though. Probably because she was a handmaiden. The Hall of Mages was the only place birth or military stature didn’t matter. After a moment she realized being a mage was its own form of stature. 
After meeting the captain, he handed her one of the familiar wooden practice swords after they both dismounted. People would start rumors if they found out the Captain Commander of the castle guard was training a handmaiden. He pointed to the trees where she could wrap her reigns.
A short time later the captain was instructing her on the forms required for self-defense against foes on horseback. Her eyes widened as the greying man mounted.
She cursed. “I have to fight you from the ground?”
He chuckled. “Would you rather learn against an armored enemy intent on sheering your head from your body?” 
Blinking, she tried to remember what he’d said about the form. At least lady Casen is not here to watch me fail, she thought with some small relief. She was always quite sharp when criticizing failure. But when would she ever need to fight a mounted enemy? She frowned.
“No!” Leisa squeaked and ran away when the captain charged, feeling stupid. She imagined Sorela’s sharp tone. The captain responded nearly as sharply. “You will not always have the luxury of running away, girl. You have sparred against me innumerable times. Face me as you would any other day, or I will have to tell the lady mage how craven you are?”
Leisa bit her lip, tangled her fingers together. She went back to the spot where the captain had tried to bat her head like a filthy rat in the castle. He charged her again as she raised her sword in the correct form. Their wooden blades cracked against each other as Korvin galloped past. He didn’t hit her… Luckily. 
“Good, very good,” he said loudly, wheeling his horse. He trotted the animal toward her. “This time I will come low,” he continued as he dismounted to show her the form. After he finished, he mounted and rode away from her, positioning for another charge.
This is not as hard, or as scary as I thought it would be, she told herself, smiling at her success.
The captain charged again, and this time things did not go as she thought they would. The next she knew, she was rolled onto her back.
Caldren grimaced. “Are you all right?” 
I must have done the form wrong, she thought, gingerly moving her fingers up to her cheek. She winced. “I think I’m okay,” she said. “How do I look?”
The captain raised an eyebrow. “Like we will not be training for some time,” he said.
* * *
Leisa winced as she sat up in bed. Again she gingery touched her cheek. It still felt big. It wasn’t as bad as it was last night, but it still hurt.
He’s going to tell Sorela what happened, she thought, biting back a curse. She imagined stern disappointment on the mage’s beautiful face. 
After the captain had carried her into the servant’s quarters, the others crowded about, wide eyed and in more shock than Leisa had been in after the accident! Mistress Wemok nearly fainted, muttering something about footpads so close to the castle. The captain told them all to settle down, and explained that he’d found her, bucked from her horse. Of course, it wasn’t true, but she corroborated the lie. Leisa didn’t like lying, but she couldn’t just as well have told them what actually happened!
After a few moments feeling around the swollen spot, she finally slipped out of bed and cursed softly, reaching for the fresh bruise on her shin. She limped to the basin under the window. The morning sun provided enough light to cast her reflection in the still water. She winced at her reflection, remembering how the captain had come at her on horseback. She tried to parry, but instead his sword knocked her feet from under her and she ate dirt.
Leisa almost laughed, but quelled her moment of mirth. She would have to work double hard to make up for the failure. She could only imagine what Sorela would say when she arrived to find her with a bruised eye and a fat face. You have to prove yourself to me, she’d said before. I will not present a girl to the Hall, bound for failure so that you can embarrass yourself, and worse, me. Do you understand, child?
I won’t fail, she thought. I can’t. Well she could, but that would mean living out the rest of her life as a commoner. Being a commoner wasn’t bad, but she wanted more. What was it that Sorela originally saw in her anyway?
Suddenly mistress Wemok came through the door, paused. “My, my,” she said, shaking her head and tsking. “I will not blame you child if you cannot work today, but if you can, I expect you to be at your fullest. I will not have any slack under me.” She took Leisa’s chin under her hand to get a good look at her face. She made more disapproving sounds again. “Back in bed, child—there will be no work for you today.”
“I feel fine, Mistress Wemok, truly I—“
The Mistress of Servants interrupted. “Oh, enough, child. I will not have you going about the castle with that face of yours.” Then as an afterthought she added, “Besides, unless you want to spend the day cleaning out the privies, I would best shut my mouth if I were you—lady Casen isn’t even here! Who will you be tendin’ to?”
The privies? I’m a handmaiden, not an ordinary servant. But mistress Wemok was right, though Leisa still had other duties to attend to. They could wait. She nodded, slowly limping back to her bed.
“Now,” Wemok said, “I will have some hot breakfast brought down to you soon. You just rest, child.” She smiled, then left the room.
“Sorela’s going to skin me.”

THREE—Detour
The streets of Balthine were more crowded than Sorela remembered. After dodging several pushy hawkers and numerous beggars, she shouldered through more crowds—many were foreigners from the north, probably refugees—and decided to avoid the main roads. It was distasteful. 
Wasting no time in the city, she directed a carriage driver to take the side streets where there would be less people. After some time, the carriage stopped at the top of the mountain where steep black-chiseled steps lead up to the Hall of Mages. On either side of the wide steps were various statues of notable mages, all long dead, holding lit torches that guttered in the wind. She turned to regard the beautiful city for a moment. A rumble of black clouds shaded the south. 
After climbing the steps and providing her signet ring which hung from a leather cord from her neck, Sorela was admitted past the formal sentries into the grounds. The Hall of Mages had been built with purple marble and a steep-arched, tiled roof. Only one story high, she still had to crane her neck to see the Symbol of the Hall at the top, the symbol of her signet ring, just under the arched tiled roof. It consisted of a purple silhouetted figure surrounded by intricate scrollwork. The Hall was the largest building on the grounds where the High Council gathered. Other outbuildings, much more modest, scattered the grounds and consisted of living quarters for mages and initiates alike, as well as the most comprehensive library in Balthine.
Sorela approached the large, ornately carved waterwood doors leading into the Hall. Porters moved to admit her through. The pale green doors slammed shut behind her. Her footfalls echoed through the quiet interior reverberating off the columns on each side as she moved through patches of pale light shining through arched windows taller than three men would have been standing atop one another. 
Formal honor guards stood at attention, motionless in front of each column, and abreast of them on either side were large braziers that kept the Hall a little too warm. Memories came back to her of her time in training. She smiled, watching the intricately carved chandeliers pulse with yellow light from the luminescent magically infused crystals there.
Sorela shook herself and continued until she reached another large set of waterwood doors at least two hands thick. Porters admitted her and she proceded into the council chamber, immediately recognizing Master Athus, one of the high seat holders among the Council. Sorela approached the older mage, bowing gracefully as soon as she was close enough. She held her pose, which was customary, until the older mage finished speaking to another man, who she did not recognize.
“Thank you, Zanith,” Master Athus said. “You may go.” The young man, probably still an apprentice, bowed before uttering the customary farewell of the Hall, and made his way out of the chamber through a small side door as Athus watched him go. Finally he turned to Sorela, “Rise, child, so that I may see your face.”
Sorela did as she was instructed. She met the older Mage’s eyes, friendly, but his face held an edge of tired gauntness.
“Ah,” Athus said, “Sorela...it is wonderful to see you. How are you, child?”
“I am well, Master. Thank you, though I wish I were here under better circumstances.”
There was a moment of silence before Athus spoke. “Come, have a meal with me.” He gestured for her to follow. “You must be famished after your long travels. How are lord and lady Warfink?”
“Not well, I’m afraid,” Sorela said, “considering the circumstances.”
Master Athus was well aware of the situation and mumbled something indistinct as they carried on. They went to the back of the council chamber and entered through a small door like the one Zanith had disappeared behind, leading her down a narrow corridor with many rooms that were well lit and warm, until they reached a door near the end that lead into a spacious room with a high ceiling. Tapestries, hundreds of years old, adorned the ceiling, depicting different histories of the Hall. 
“It is my supper time, as you can see,” Athus said, gesturing to a table laden with food. “Please, sit.”
The older Mage began making his plate with deft fingers as Sorela sat. “Master...” She was not sure where to begin. Or even if she should begin now. She had just arrived. “Master Athus...I seek an audience with the council. I have an urgent matter to bring to your attention.”
“Ah,” Athus said as he finished choosing the various foods he wanted, which were quite a lot. Sorela was surprised a man of his age had such an appetite. “Of course you do.” He popped a grape into his mouth, chewed and swallowed. “Please, eat,” he said, “and then you can tell me all about your troubles, child.”
Sorela enjoyed the food, especially after eating only bread, hard cheese and dried meat during the journey, though she ate fast in her haste to tell the master mage of recent events. After they were both finished—she had to wait for Athus, who took considerably longer than she had—she proceeded to tell him of her dilemma. “Lord Warfink will go to war with Nelothar if I am unable to attain permission from the council to venture forth in finding his son.”
The older mage was aware Lord Jalen was missing and had been kept appraised of the situation ever since it had become an issue. Athus stroked his beard for a moment. “I would not put it past Lord Nightkar to hold Lord Warfink’s son hostage, but do we know if he is or not, child?”
“No,” Sorela said reluctantly. “We know so little, and yet I feel this occurrence of the lords son going missing are much more complex than we may imagine.”
Athus continued stroking his beard. “We are mages, child. The Hall is here to serve and protect.”
“Then you understand what I am asking, Master?”
“Hmmm, yes I do, child, and I agree with you. Lord Warfink should not be given an excuse to go to war with Nelothar. We should dissuade this line of attack.” He chuckled. “Pardon the pun. Enough lives are being wasted in the wars already being fought. I believe that leaves only you as a viable option, my deer.” Then, after a moment he added, “And I do believe that it is entirely possible that Lord Nightkar is in fact holding Lord Warfink’s son for ransom, though he would never admit to such, for fear of an attack on a second front, I think.”
If lord Nightkar is holding young Jalen, Sorela thought, how will I find him?
“You must not make any accusations against lord Nightkar to your lord Warfink. We do not yet know if his treachery is indeed truth. Lord Warfink joining the war will cost many more lives, lives that can be spared if such bloodshed can be avoided. We have already fallen short, as mages, in preventing so much strife in recent times. We must be diligent.”
Sorela nodded. “Do you believe the Council will grant my request?”
“Masters Kolan and Fenwar are currently away in the north trying to end this war. That leaves only myself, mistress Isela, and master Pafin on the council.” Athus scratched his chin pensively. “I believe that with my help, since you already have my confidence, we will have little trouble persuading the others to see things our way.” He smiled. “The council is sometimes too concerned with how the world sees us, even at the expense of the greater good. I have little doubt we will have any problems with the others, providing you believe you can prevent yet another war.”
“I am confident I can manage the situation, Master.” Sorela hoped Athus was right about the other members. We will see, she thought.

FOUR—The Quest
After arriving back in Nalandor, Sorela wasted no time in telling Lord Warfink she had been granted permission to find his son, and that he had no need to remove his Serafe commanders from the fields of battle.
Lord Warfink frowned. Lady Salain said, “When do you leave, Lady Casen?” Today had been another forlorn one. Lord Warfink seemed disappointed, as if he wanted to go to war, but could not, not after agreeing to let Sorela find his son. He probably thought the council would refuse her request.
Sorela glanced at Captain Caldren atop the dais beside Lord Warfink. “I may leave tonight, my lady, though I cannot set out on this journey until I find suitable assistance.”
“Assistance?” the Captain said, then paused. After a moment he turned to Lord Warfink. “I will go with Lady Casen, if it pleases you, my Lord—I will bring my best men-at-arms.”
Sorela contained her reaction. Lord Warfink nodded his ascent. Men-at-arms would not be enough.
“Thank you, Captain, your presence will be necessary, though I also need soldiers with...” Sorela wanted to frame the words so not to insult Caldren. “...with more experience.”
“More experience?” the greying man said with a frown. “I assure you, Lady Casen, my men—“
Lady Salain cut him off, her tone more firm now. “Lady Casen is right, Captain.” She turned to face Sorela. “Bring my son back, Lady Mage. Do whatever you have to—find whoever you have to—just bring my son home.”
“I will,” she said with a bow.
Sometime later, Sorela went to the barracks to see the captain commander. He ushered her into his office where they could speak in private. “I want our departure to be as discrete as possible, Captain.” 
He moved behind his desk. “I assure you, Lady Mage, I will bring only my most trusted and most skilled men.”
All of these men you speak off are off fighting a war, Captain. You have boys. And they will not be enough, she thought. “How many?”
“Oh,” the Captain said, scratching his temple “twenty or thirty at most.” 
How would they travel into a land at war with thirty men-at-arms without drawing attention to themselves? 
“Lady Mage?”
Sorela found herself eying a ragged cloak with an oiled leather hood and a thought came to her. Yes. They could travel incognito. 
Best not to draw attention.
It was a good plan, so far as she could see. “Captain, I want you to disguise yourself and your men as merchants. Prepare some wagons and some wares.”
“Wares, Lady Mage?”
“Yes,” she said. “Merchants sell wares, Captain. We may need them to make our ruse believable.”
“As you say, Lady Mage,” he replied with a small bow. “I will need a few hours to ready and prepare my men so we can depart on your say so.”
“Very good, Captain.” She turned to leave the barracks.

FIVE—Bruises
Was it possible the captain wouldn’t tell Lady Casen? 
Maybe she won’t find out, Leisa thought as she poured steaming water into the bath. She cursed, shook herself, knowing the bruise on her face would all but tell the Lady Mage what she need not even ask. At least it was beginning to fade, a dark brown now, ringed with a sickly yellow tinge. She looked as if she’d caught something terrible. But it has been a week now.
The door opened. It was Lady Casen.  Leisa bowed. “I am pleased you have returned, my lady.”  
“As am I,” the Mage said. “I will be departing again early in the morning.”
Leisa passed Sorela as she entered the main bed chamber, busying herself, trying not to expose the side of her face. “May I ask why, my lady?”
“I have been charged to find and bring back lord Warfink’s son.” She entered the bath chamber and closed the door behind her.
That would mean traveling to the north. “But there’s a war on, my lady,” she said, trying to get the mage to open up further on the subject...through a door of all things. She nearly rolled her eyes at herself.
Sorela yelped.
“My lady?”  Leisa asked, slowly opening the door to find Lady Casen robing herself.
“This water is near to the point of boiling, child!” the mage barked, waving her hand jerkily.
Leisa’s eyes widened. How could I be so daft! “I’m sorry, Lady Mage,” she said, trying to keep herself from stammering. “I will fetch you some cold water and—“ 
“Do not bother,” Sorela replied, turning to bend over the bath. She made motions with her hands, and a faint light seemed to appear from inside the tub. 
Leisa inched forward, but Sorela turned, frustration on her face. “Do not just stand there. Fetch me towels.”
“Of course.” She bowed, nearly ran, cursing and chiding herself.  She piled two sets of towels over her arm. When she arrived in the bath chamber she stopped to find the mage relaxing in the tub that had been scalding only a few moments before. 
Was it...mage craft?
Realizing her mouth was open, she moved to set the towels on a stool. “Can I get you anything else, my lady?”
Her response was terse. “Nothing.”
When would Leisa find the moment to ask her? Not now, you fool! 
Despite her self-warning, she had to, before she missed her chance. “My lady?” she said gingerly.
The other woman exhaled with exasperated patience. “What is it?”
Leisa’s fingers tangled together behind her back. “I, uh...” How to put the question to the mage? Not with a smooth tongue, she thought, the lady mage can always tell. She had told Leisa on more than one occasion that she was far wiser than her, and Leisa didn’t doubt that for a second. 
“Well, out with it, child.”
Her best chance was to be as honest as possible...well, almost. “I want you to take me with you, lady mage—to find lord Warfink’s son.”
Silence....
Leisa was about to leave the room when lady Casen said, “Why?” in a slow, cool voice, her green piercing eyes finding Leisa.
Leisa swallowed. “I want to be of help, my Lady.”
“You mean you want to prove your worth so that I will take you to the Hall,” she said. It wasn’t a question.
“I...” her eyes fell to her feet. “Yes.”
Lady Casen said nothing. Finally she said, “It will be dangerous.”
“I know. But I can take care of myself.”
The mage raised an eyebrow. “The way you took care of yourself with Captain Caldren last week? I don’t think so.”
Leisa’s face heated and she put a hand to her cheek. He told her already? She wanted to curse, trying to keep her face from getting any redder. “I can use a sword. You know I can.”
Sorela motioned her forward, then took her by the chin and examined her face.
Leisa bit her lip as Sorela tapped fingers pensively. “There will be no slacking, and you—“
Leisa jumped, uncontrolled excitement near to bursting. The lady mage frowned with a scandalized expression.
“Sorry,” Leisa said, hands behind her again.
“Pack warm, and pack for riding,” the mage said. “We leave on the morning. But I tell you now, there will be no soft bed for you. You will awaken with blisters—and you will likely find yourself hungry.”
Leisa nodded.
“You’re a wool-brained fool of a girl.”
“Yes, Lady.”
Sorela breathed in deeply. “Fine.”

SIX—The Ruse
Captain Caldren was now calling himself Thalus to maintain his disguise. He rode at the front of the caravan with Sorela. You are the owner of this caravan, and I am your patron, she had told him—see to it that your men play their parts. The Captain—Thalus—had assured her that soldiers playing the part of body guards would not be difficult.
It was midday. The horses clopped along the cobbled roads amidst the squeaks of wagon wheels, the slight chill of late autumn in the air. Passers buy eyed the caravan up and down, but none stopped to buy anything. Just as well they did not. Rumors of a caravan traveling north uninterested in selling their wares would surely bode ill. Oh, “Thalus” would sell whatever anyone wanted, but it would not be long before rumors abounded.
A small roadside village appeared and Sorela spotted an inn almost immediately. The Roadside Mule, a shabby little place.
“Why are we stopping?” the captain asked.
“You are not,” she told him, dismounting. “Take some of your men and head west. Find as many inns as you can.”
“Mistress?”
“I told you, Thalus,” she said, trying not to sound flustered. “We need swords with more skill and experience than the common soldier.”
“My men are veterans.”
“Some of them—yes. Most are barely trained boys.”
Caldren actually looked abashed for just a moment before scowling. “Do you mean to tell me, lady mage, that I am to go in search of hirelings—mercenaries?” His scowl deepened at the last word. 
Leisa’s eyes darted between them. 
“I will not,” he said,” his voice starting to rise. 
Sorela looked around, making sure they would not be overheard. “You will do as I command, Captain, or I will see you punished for your insolence.”
Nearly bearing his teeth, he said, “Lord Warfink will not—“
She cut him off. “I have been charged to find and bring back young lord Jalen using any means I find fit.” She realized her voice was beginning to carry and looked around a second time. “Unless you wish his lordship to recall his Serafes, I suggest you obey me.”
The captain growled, barked to three of his men, instructing them to follow and wheeled his horse west. 
“Remember, Captain,” Sorela said in a near whisper. “We need swords with skill and experience.”
“Yes, mistress,” he said grudgingly. “When shall I return?”
“On the morning,” Sorela said, then turned to Leisa. “Come, child.”
The inn did not have very many patrons this hour of the day, though Sorela suspected that, being on the main road, there would be an increase during the later hours of the night. Some of the disguised soldiers entered the inn with them, along with the stable boy. They looked toward the bar uncertainly as Sorela made her way to the innkeeper.
“Good day, mistress,” the innkeeper said, drying a pewter mug and nodding. “Can I get you anything?”
“Information,” Sorela said, holding up a silver coin.
The fat man eyed the large coin. “What can I help you with?” 
“I am journeying up north and am in need of protection.” 
The innkeeper’s lips moved, but he said nothing, his beady eyes falling on the coin in her hand a second time. 
She gestured for him to take the coin and it promptly disappeared inside his stained apron. “Protection... So you are in search of hirelings then?”
“So long as they have swift swords and plenty of experience.”
“Plenty of experience... Plan on fightin’ in the war?” He chuckled, though when Sorela gave him a hard look all mirth vanished from his face. She did not have time for this... “Stay a while,” he said quietly. “They’ve been coming in from up north for some time now. Many flock to areas of conflict and war, but the smart ones avoid it. They know, no matter how skilled with a sword, a battle is a battle, and the best warriors still fall durin’ a fray.”
“Thank you,” Sorela said. “In that case, I will need a room, and the hay lofts in your stables.” For all she knew, the innkeeper was simply lying to get them to purchase rooms.
“Why the stables?” Jasen asked. “We have tents...” 
The boy’s eyes dropped to his boots when Sorela rounded on him. “I would prefer that we only use the tents when we are off the roads. No sense in making ourselves look like a money-laden caravan ripe for robbery. Now what are you doing in here? Go take care of the horses—that is what you do, is it not?”
The stable boy scurried off before she could think to say anything else. The men would be fine in the hay loft, even if they did not like it. She paid the innkeeper for the room and told Leisa to stay with the soldiers as she headed for the door.
Leisa frowned. “Where are you going, my lady?” 
Sorela half turned, said, “We cannot afford to lose time. I will travel to the next few inns in search of hirelings. I will be back before the night is out.” Assuming the stable boy had not started with her horse, she would be away quickly. 
Had she really argued with the captain, knowing how reckless this was? Hirelings indeed. But with Lord Warfink’s Serafes gone, there were no other skilled swords in the region, and the common soldier could hardly compare.
“Let me come with you!”
“No,” Sorela said firmly. “Stay with the soldiers.” Leisa seemed crestfallen. The girl would soon get her chance. She opened the door. “Be patient, child. You’re worse than the stable hand.”

SEVEN—Out of Depth
Leisa spent most of the day talking to Jasen and the soldiers, but when the inn became crowded with patrons, it got loud. Her head hurt. She decided to lay down for a time, though with the intention of going back down to search for hirelings. Surely they would come, but it wasn’t yet dark out, so she decided to sleep. I will show Sorela I can be useful, she told herself. It still rankled that the mage hadn’t allowed Leisa to accompany her. 
When she finally went down to the common room the inn was bustling with raucous laughter and music. Leisa glanced around for Sorela and couldn’t find her. It seemed Jasen and the others weren’t there either. She pushed her way to a table with enough free room to sit and a serving girl, not much older than herself, came to ask what she’d like to eat. Leisa paid for milk, porridge and some roasted chicken. After finishing, the ache in the back of her head was only a distant memory. She glanced around. What do hirelings even look like?
There were several big men with swords drinking mugs of ale, eating from plates of mostly meat, pausing from time to time to slosh their food down with a gulp. They clapped to the tune a bard was playing as a girl danced atop one of the tables. The song she sang made Leisa blush.
She wondered how to strike up casual conversation with some of these men as she watched the girl dance atop the table. She was of a similar age as Leisa, and showing far too much leg to be decent. Leisa could go over to their table, put on as much female charm as she knew how... Her face already felt hot. She could just pretend the big one was Jasen and the others were his friends. 
Where is Jasen? she wondered looking about the common room. Was he already asleep in the hay loft? It was still early. More likely he was chatting up the soldiers. He didn’t get very many chances to do that.
Finally Leisa worked up the courage to sit at the other table. “Is this spot taken?” she asked a large bearded man near the edge. She had to look up at him. 
He scowled, took a gulp of his ale. “Move along, serving wench.” 
“I am no serving wench, you lout! Mind your tongue before you find out what’s best for you.”
The man flinched, stood up and pushed the bench backward. Leisa’s eyes widened and she nearly toppled over. The bard cut off abruptly and the girl stopped dancing. 
She cursed as she stood, peering into the man’s ruddy face. She sounded like the lady mage just then... Where did that come from?
The huge man towered over Leisa, double what he had before. She tried to keep an air of confidence about her without revealing the fact that her hands were shaking.
“If not a servant,” he said harshly, looking her up and down, “then you must be a whore.” He thrust a hand between her legs.
Leisa jumped back reflexively, a cat that had just turned a corner to find a barking mastiff. She slapped at the lout’s arm. He laughed raucously along with his companions. Leisa unsheathed the dagger at her belt.
“What are you going to do with that, darling, tickle me?”
More laughing.
A door slammed shut loud enough to draw everyone’s attention. Two new strangers had entered the inn—a shorter man in front with his fists on his hips. He was wearing an oiled leather cloak like his friend, and had black trousers and a yellow shirt. “My friend wants to make a wager.”
 The lout beside Leisa arched an eyebrow. “A wager...? Against what?”
“You,” the taller of the two strangers said, pointing a finger. “Me and you—we brawl—the winner gets the girl.”
Leisa’s eyes nearly bulged out of her head. 
What? “Nobody gets the girl!” she yelped.
The tall stranger smiled. He was actually quite handsome—they both were, but Leisa quickly pushed that thought out of her head. 
“I only want a quick dance and you can be on your way. I assure you my intentions are pure, young maiden.” He gave a flourishing bow.
Leisa’s face grew hot as the louts behind her barked out, laughing. The big bearded man shoved her aside. “You have a wager!”
Moments later the center of the common room, despite the innkeeper’s protests, was cleared of tables and there was a large ring of patrons, men, women, and serving girls alike, forming a large circle surrounding the two men.
Good gods, Leisa thought, looking for the door, but she couldn’t see it for the press of onlookers. She’s going to kill me!

EIGHT—Tavern Brawl
Falan removed his shirt and handed his sword belt to Serin. He was ready to fight. The hairy-chested brute stepped into the center of the room, fists up, smiling. “Your friend better not forget that wager when I’m through with you.”
Falan sniffed wryly. He enjoyed a good fight, though he was not looking forward to a bear hug from arms as thick as his own thighs. The black hair on the other man’s chest seemed to spring out as if it too wanted a go at him. 
Falan raised his fists, then glanced toward the girl, a small thing. A little shy, he thought. She seemed to be—
His vision swam with little white flecks, a blunt throbbing in his jaw. He was on his knees now and the spectators were shouting in a din of excitement. 
“Kick him!” a man shouted. 
“Get up,” a woman yelled.
Was that the girl shouting? If he lost this fight, she would be in even deeper than she had before. Falan got back to his feet.
The large man—the bear—had a self-satisfied look on his thick bearded face. He came for another swing, but this time Falan raised up his arm, blocking the attempt, then brought up his fist in an uppercut to the bear’s stomach. It seemed to stun the man, but only for an instant. After a more than quick recovery, the bear twisted Falan’s arm downward so he could get inside Falan’s defenses. The room seemed to bounce as Falan was forced backward, his head swinging from the head-butt he’d just taken.
He shook himself, smiled. His opponent crunched his bushy black brows. 
Thought I would go down that easy, did you? 
Falan’s eyes caught an awkward moment behind the hairy man. Leaning to the right and peering over the heads of the crowd—most were far shorter than Falan—peering over their heads, he spotted a pretty woman in a dark purple-hooded cloak eying the crowd in search of something, or someone. Her piercing green eyes widened and then turned into slits as they fell on the feisty young girl he was attempting to rescue. 
They know each other? 
Another hard blow made its mark. The pain blossomed through Falan’s stomach, and for a moment he could not breathe. His thoughts were not on the pain, but on giving a good show so Serin could collect more coin when this farce was over. 
Falan was new to tavern brawling. The whole thing was a scam, but it worked, and pain was not something Falan was afraid of, or even avoided when he did not absolutely have to. 
It was time to end this.
Shaking himself, he got up, fists raised. He lunged at the sweaty-chested bear, feigned with a jab, then brought his leg in an arc connecting his shin with the side of his opponent’s knee.
The other man fell to the floor, grunted loudly as Falan backed away, making enough room for what he was about to do next. He lurched forward, jumped. He brought his first down with more bodyweight than just a shoulder could have provided.
His knuckles connected with the bear’s jaw and he slammed against the wood-planked floor, more than a little stunned. Falan kicked him twice in the ribs. But he was not finished. It would take more than that to end this... 
Falan bent over, delivered a flurry of blows, the bear struggling to block, failing miserably as punch after punch landed. Finally the bear’s arms flailed, his eyes in a daze. Falan delivered one last blow that ended the brawl.
The crowd cheered and others grumbled their losses. 
Falan searched faces as he picked up his shirt. 
“One of these times,” Serin said with a wry grin, “you’re going to lose, you know.”
Where did they go? Falan wondered, still eyeing people in the common room as they turned to go about their own business. The innkeeper let out a heavy breath of relief as the bard picked up his harp and started to sing. Several men called for drinks and the serving girls made their way to the kitchens while tables and benches were slid back into place.
“Falan, are you awake?”
“Of course,” he said as he put on his shirt and sword belt. “Did you see where they went?”
“Who?” Serin asked. “You mean the girl? I think I saw another woman take her through the stable door.” Then he added, “I was not actually sure you would win this time, Falan. Had me worried for a time.” He shook several small purses of coins he had won, a satisfied smile on his face.
“I get half,” Falan said, rubbing the side of his jaw.

NINE—A Ruffian’s Offer
The soldiers stood languidly around the stable, listening. “Forgive me, Lady Mage, for not keeping an eye on her,” Captain Caldren said, “but I am the Captain of the Guard, not the Mistress of Servants.”
Leisa felt her face redden. She had to say something to lighten this overreaction. “Those men are in there fighting each other over gold,” she said, pointing toward the side door leading into the inn. “They have armor and swords—they’re just the sort of men we’re looking for, and I found them—“
She was cut off by the Lady Mage. “Silence, child.” The woman was outwardly serene for the most part, but her breathing was too tense for her to be anything but calm on the inside.
Leisa stepped back, fingers tangling behind her. She glanced up at Jasen looking over the edge from the hat loft above, eyes wide, mouth open.
“I told you to stay with the soldiers, not to start common room brawls like a slattern in some tavern.”
Was Leisa as outwardly taken aback as she felt? She was sure of it, face even hotter now. If that was what the Lady Mage thought of her, then there was little chance she would ever find herself within the Hall of Mages, as proper as they were. She didn’t see why reputation had anything to do with it, not that hers was tarnished in any way—at least she knew that much.
“She’s not to blame.” Leisa and everyone else in the stable turned sharply toward the new voice.
Her heart skipped a beat. Not because she was besotted with the strange man who had seemingly just saved her from a great deal of trouble, but because the Lady Mage had seen him fighting. The fight she thought Leisa had started. 
I did start that fight, she told herself reluctantly. Her heart skipped another beat, wondering if he would ask her for that dance in front of the Lady Mage. Leisa cursed quietly.
The Mage’s eyes narrowed. “You.”
“Yes, my lady,” the man said. “Falan Nogal, at your service.” He took a small bow. 
“How long have you been standing there?” 
The man who called himself Falan Nogal smiled. “Long enough to know this”—he gestured about—“isn’t a caravan of merchants. If you are in need of a good pair of swords we can—“
“Silence,” Lady Casen said. “We are not looking for tavern brawlers, ruffian.”
“I assure you, my lady,” Falan said, “I am much more than the average ‘tavern brawler,’ though a ruffian I may be.” He smiled again.
The mage scowled. “Captain...”
Captain Caldren moved up beside her. “Yes, my lady?”
“Remove this...” she looked Falan up and down. “...remove this filth from my sight.”
Leisa crossed her arms, her face getting hot with anger as she kicked a clump of dried horse dung a few feet.
“My lady,” the Captain affirmed as he and several of his soldiers began to bare their arms.
Falan raised his hands. “Very well,” he said. “I take the hint and will be on my way.” He began to turn for the door when he added, “If you should change your mind and require my sword, and that of my friend’s, I will be staying at this inn for the next few days.” He bowed again and then shut the door behind him.
“He doesn’t sound like a tavern brawling ruffian to me,” Jasen said after a moment of silence. “He could be a Serafe for all we know.”
The captain glared up at the stable boy. “Shut up, Jalen.” He turned to the rest of the men. “Go to sleep. All of you! We have hard traveling in the morning.”
The soldiers moved about eyeing mounds of hay as if trying to decide which might be less uncomfortable. Or maybe less flea-infested.
Lady Casen turned to the captain, her tone calm, as if nothing were out of place. “Were you able to find any help, Captain?”
The greying man shook his head. “I am sorry, Lady Mage, I was not successful.”
She nodded, all placid calmness. “Go to sleep, Captain. We have a long day tomorrow.”
“Yes, my lady,” the captain said, then turned toward the ladder leading to the loft.
Leisa uncrossed her arms to speak, but Lady Casen ignored her, making her way for the door. “Come, child,” the mage commanded without turning to look at her.
She would probably have words for Leisa after they were in their room.

TEN—Plan for Some Coin
Who was that cloaked woman? Was she in charge? The captain seemed to defer to her in the stable...
What are they after? Falan wondered. And why the secrecy?
He dropped the hand from his jaw as the woman with the regal bearing, the younger woman in toe—A servant maybe?—stepped back in. The younger woman glanced at him. The one in charge did not so much as look in his direction. They made their way to the second floor. He could not imagine the older woman sleeping in a hay loft. He chuckled softly to himself as he lifted his mug for another slosh of ale.
“That one seems to take an interest,” Serin said, nodding to the stairs. It was a jab. The cloaked woman could not make a better show of ignoring him.
“I think,” Falan said, cutting off for another drink of ale. “I think we have just found ourselves work.”
Serin cocked an eyebrow. “Doubtful.”
Falan grinned wryly. “Why?”
“Ah, yes, you were occupied by that giant’s fists earlier. Forgive me, but I played witness to how that woman looked at you.”
“She was watching me?”
The other man rolled his eyes. “Glowering is a better word.”
“It does not matter,” Falan said. “I caught a bit of their conversation as I entered the stables.”
Serin sat up straighter. “Go on.”
“Apparently they are traveling with the captain of some guard.”
Serin frowned.
“It seems they are traveling north, but in secrecy for some reason.” 
Serin nodded thoughtfully as he went on. 
“There were near twenty five men with them. Most of them looked like bodyguards, but I think they are the captain’s men-at-arms.”
Serin shrugged. “Then they have no need of us.”
“Normally I would agree with you, old friend, but the maiden—“
The other man broke in. “Her name is Leisa.”
“You spoke to her?”
“We exchanged a few words, though I was mostly preoccupied with making wagers at the time.”
“What did she say?”
“We exchanged a few idle words,” Serin said, “nothing more. She seemed somewhat guarded, I thought, which if they are traveling in secret, makes sense.”
“Yes, and I overheard the—Leisa—say something about us being the ‘kind of men they need.’”
Serin pursed his lips. “Falan we are headed south for a reason.”
Falan made a face. “Yes, yes,” he said with a dismissive hand. “But whatever they are up to, they are not going to throw us in some vanguard—they are after something, and they do not want it to be known. There could be a lot of coin in it.”
Serin stopped peering into his mug and raised his head. “That woman... She could be highborn, or connected to the highborn in some way. Perhaps there is coin to be had in this, but is it worth the risk?”
Falan smiled. “These southlanders know nothing of what happens in the north.” At least that is what he thought. What he hoped.
“They are traveling north,” Serin said flatly as if to say they could indeed know, or at least, find out who and what they were.
Ignoring the other man’s insinuation Falan said, “Which is why they need a good pair of northern swords to guide them.”
“I suppose,” Serin said. “But we should not let it out that we are Nelothan.”
“Agreed,” Falan said, faking a Solen accent quite well. “We need to keep an eye on them.”
Serin nodded, and the two men smiled as their pewter mugs clashed, ale sloshing over the rims of their cups.

ELEVEN—Warning Signs
They took turns watching the stables through the only window in the small room, since there would be no certain way to know when the “merchant caravan” would be leaving. Falan paid the innkeeper privately so that he might warn them of the caravan’s departure. It was best to be safe and keep a lookout as well.
The sun had not yet peeked over the horizon when Serin nudged Falan with his boot. “Get up—they’re leaving.”
There was no need to explain who “they” were. Falan got out of bed, splashed his face with cold water and put on his shirt and cloak, then buckled on his sword belt.
A knock came at the door. Serin answered, whispering a word of thanks to the innkeeper. By the time the two men were in the common room, the caravan had already moved out onto the road. Instead of wasting time, they paid the innkeeper for a small bag of apples.
The two men made certain not to be seen, and kept a distance of several hills just in case the caravan had outriders, not that Falan was expecting them. “If they catch us following, we can forget about making any coin off them. We need to make another meeting seem happenstance, as if it were purely coincidence.” 
It should not be hard, he thought. They were on the main road.
Serin made a noise of agreement as he took a bite from one of the crisp red apples fished from the bag hanging from the pommel of his saddle. “Perhaps at whatever inn they decide to stop at tonight,” he said, chewing further.
But will they see through our ruse? Falan wondered. They would surely be on their guard, suspicious. “And if they see us for what we are?” 
“We are concerned travelers,” Serin said with a wide grin.
Falan smiled wryly. “Concerned for the gold in their purses.” Both men laughed.
Near mid-day, they rounded a small cops of thick trees where smoke had been billowing. Falan could not make out how many men were behind the rocks obscuring his view, but the voices echoing from the camp sounded harsh. His hand instinctively moved toward the hilt of his sword, though he did not bare any steel. Serin did the same.
They could be bandits, or just travelers, though they seemed to be in a rather large group of about fifteen men. All had weapons of various kinds; axes, swords and bows. There were no wagons, or women, and no children either. They did not seem to care they could be overheard, and that eased Falan’s nerves a little. They were obviously not going to ambush them. Unless they have already chosen a target, like a gold laden caravan, he thought. “What do you think?” he asked, glancing toward the other man.
“Could be bandits.”
Men were mounting their horses as others sheathed weapons or put out fires. “They might have an idea about attacking Leisa’s caravan.”
Serin nodded. “I thought you said the other woman was in charge?”
“She seemed in charge to me,” Falan said.
Serin shrugged. “Do you think we should warn them?”
It would certainly make for a good excuse to speak with Leisa’s mistress. “Come on,” Falan finally said, booting his horse to a canter and then to a gallop as soon as they were out of sight.
It was not difficult to catch up, being only two hills behind. The captain and some of his men met them at the rear of the procession, steel bared, bows knocked. One of them was a young red-cheeked lad who looked as though he had never held a weapon in his life. If the captain’s men fought as green as this boy looked, they were doing themselves a disservice by not hiring them. 
“Are you following us, stranger?” The grizzled man asked, his voice somewhat irritated.
“Captain,” Falan said, “This is a main highway. Is it so hard to think we may be traveling in the same direction as yourselves?”
The older man cocked his head. “Then we will escort you past the caravan so you can be on your way.”
The woman in the purple cloak—she was not wearing the cloak now—rode up abreast the captain, the younger woman at her side. “Thank you, Captain,” Falan said, “But I wish to speak to your mistress.”
“You, again,” she said. “What do you want?” Her tone was a no nonsense one, though the air of unwelcome faded slightly with Leisa’s presence. She never seemed to be very far behind the other woman who was surely a noble—she carried herself that way. At least they were not completely unwanted.
“My Lady,” Falan said. “My friend and I only happen to be traveling on the same road as yourselves, and we only wish to warn you of a possible threat.”
“And what threat is that?” she asked coolly.
“Behind,” he said, gesturing, “there seems to be a small band of what look like bandits. They travel with no wagons or women, and are heavily armed.”
Leisa’s eyes went from her mistress, back to Falan. “We saw them...” the noblewoman said. “How do you know they are not the guard of some lord?”
“My Lady,” Falan said, “Their armor is old and mismatched, and they camp alongside the road during the night. They do not seem to be the guard of any lord I would know.”
“And how many lords would a tavern brawler know?” The woman’s tone was flat, but Falan was sure she was mocking him. When he said nothing she continued. “Thank you for the warning. We will be extra vigilant from this point on.” She turned to the man with greying hair. “Thalus, escort these men to the front of the caravan so they can be on their way.”
The captain bowed his head. “Yes, my Lady.”

TWELVE—From the Trees
Falan Nogal and his friend Serin were escorted to the front of the caravan. Lady Casen and Leisa rode to the front as well. Leisa found herself glancing behind her shoulder. Were there really bandits behind them?
Jasen flashed her a quick grin. She returned it before focusing her attention on the lady mage. “My lady?” She asked tentatively.
“What is it, child?” She seemed to be in a better mood than last night. A good sign.
“Would it have not been wise to ask those men to accompany us on the road—at least for a time—in case there really are bandits behind us?” 
The mage cocked an eyebrow pensively.
“It would have been logical,” Leisa added.
“Perhaps,” the lady mage said slowly, “but we can take care of ourselves, child—at least we can here, before we cross the border.”
A mage could send a pack of bandits for the hills on her own, though Leisa didn’t know for certain. There were certainly many stories about the power mages could wield, but those were only rumors, and she had only seen the mage use her powers on a few occasions. Perhaps she uses them more often than I think. It wouldn’t be hard for a mage to use her powers surreptitiously. Sorela didn’t seem to care about hiding her power when she had cooled her bath water. Or did she snap at Leisa about the towels to keep her from seeing too much? Leisa shook herself. “We can still use their swords, my lady.”
Sorela waved away a buzzing insect. “And we can still find other swords.”
“And if we don’t?”
The lady mage turned toward Leisa. It was difficult to keep her eyes level with the woman. She felt them on her still when she turned to look at the head of the small column of men surrounding the wagons.
“We will, child,” the older woman said as Captain Caldren and two of his men rode up beside them.
“My lady, I am sending outriders to make sure the column remains safe.” 
Didn’t they have to maintain their disguise? Maybe the captain was more concerned about safety.
Lady Casen nodded. “Very good, Captain.”
The greying man, though still very fit for his middle years, returned the nod and rode off toward the rear with his two mounted men-at-arms.
Even though autumn was upon them, and sure to get much cooler as they progressed north, the rising noon sun made Leisa warm. She took off her cloak and bundled it onto the back of her saddle. The lady mage had done the same not an hour before. Both women wore riding dresses, though the lady mage’s was decidedly much finer than her own. “I’ve never been to the north,” she said, more to herself than to the Sorela. 
They rode on in silence. “Keep on your guard, child,” Sorela finally said. “Nelothar and Solen are at war because high lord Nightkar sent raiders into Solen.”
“Why would he do that when he knows what would happen?”
The lady mage looked thoughtful. “Nelothar is strong. It may be that they did not expect king Dalthan to retaliate.”
Leisa frowned. “But why raid another kingdom?”
A hint of a wry smile touched the mage’s lips. “For the gold of course. It is well known that lord Nightkar wishes to make war on the Dar’nithie. He believes that all the northern kingdoms that fought before should rally under his banner once more.
The Dar’nithie ruled the island kingdom of Dar’nathine. They had tried to invade the continent long before Leisa had been born, and Nelothar had taken the brunt of the attack. Many of their cities were captured and occupied, though Leisa didn’t know for how long before the invaders were finally driven back. “Does he need the gold for ships?”
“The high lord of Nelothar has many ships, child. What he needs are numbers. For lord Nightkar to invade Dar’nathine he would need armies, much larger than would flock to his banner during these times.
Mercenaries and sells words, Leisa thought.
“I think he did not expect a war from king Dalthan, and now he is paying the price. We are all paying the price,” the mage said. “It is likely young lord Jalen is being held hostage. If it is so, lord Nightkar will demand a hefty ransom indeed.”
Leisa found herself frowning again. “But wouldn’t that cause lord Warfink to go to war with him as well?”
“It would, though lord Nightkar cannot risk a war on another front, so it is likely he will disguise young lord Jalen’s captors as Dalthan’s men so he can gain an ally against him.”
“If lord Jalen was taken by Nightkar.”
“Lord Nightkar,” lady Casen corrected, “yes.”
The lady mage seemed about to continue when a horse neighed loudly. By the time Leisa looked over her shoulder, horse and rider were already on the ground and other riders were having trouble keeping their own mounts under control, except for Jasen—he was actually a very good rider.
Mounted guardsmen, as well as the men on foot, bared steel or knocked arrows as they glanced wildly into forest on both sides.
“Something is wrong,” lady Casen said, wheeling her horse, her eyes wider than Leisa had ever seen. “Stay close to me, child.”
“My Lady!” Captain Caldren shouted as he made his way toward them. “We’re under attack!” Then he turned, shouted toward the guardsmen. “Stand firm! Stand firm!”
Eyes wide, heart hammering, Leisa tried to lower herself over her saddle as far as she could to present a smaller target. She unsheathed her slim sword. 
She couldn’t see anyone!

THIRTEEN—The Price for an Edge
“Perhaps we will get lucky and find them at the same inn tonight,” Serin said, though it was obvious he too thought there was little chance of that.
“We will start south again tomorrow,” Falan said. Then after a moment he said, “Perhaps there is more need for sells words in the south than we know.”
Serin shrugged. “The wars are always up north. I wonder why that is. Is it because southlanders cannot find the energy to fight?” He laughed. “Too hot, perhaps.”
Falan smiled wryly. “There is always other work.”
The other man looked at him. “Unless you know how to farm or build, what do you expect to do? I have never thought of you as an artist or craftsman.”
Falan cocked his head. “I once carved a small wooden ornament of Mirinetha. I thought it quite good, and gave it to beautiful noblewoman who could not keep her eyes off me.”
“Where was she from?”
Stifling laughter, he said, “Maylar...” 
Serin threw back his head, shoulders convulsing. 
“Yes, it was not until after I discovered the mistake I had made.”
“I can only imagine what her reaction had been.”
Normally Falan would not have brought up the story, but he was trying to raise Serin’s spirits, and it seemed to be working. “Her eyes bulged larger than a—“
He turned at the sound of distant shouts. Mounted guardsmen from Leisa’s caravan—he still did not know the name of the young maid’s mistress—seemed to be in a panic, several of them falling or were thrown from their horses. Most did not rise.
Serin wheeled his horse. “Falan, they’re under attack!”
Falan bared his steel, booting his mount to a gallop. Moving at a rather slow pace before, the two men had only gotten two small hills ahead of the caravan. 
Rough men on horses with mismatched weapons and armor came out of the trees from both sides of the road. More than Falan had counted camped on the side or the road earlier.
He swung at the back of one bandit’s neck as the highwayman slash down at a guardsmen wielding a spear. Serin clashed into another bandit on foot and the man went flying to the ground face first.
There were guardsmen fighting on both sides of the caravan, on foot, and on horse. The men on foot fought with spears and bows, and the men on horseback with swords. They were holding their own, for the most part—they were still taking loses—as their greying captain rode up and down the column slashing at enemies. “Holdfast!” he shouted. “Hold—“
He realized Falan coming down the column, and obviously fighting for their side. “We have them! Holdfast!”
Falan lost sight of Serin, but it did not matter, the man was as deadly as any in his ranks. 
Falan slashed his way past the ruddy-cheeked lad he had seen earlier, barely keeping an attacker at bay, thrusting awkwardly with his pike. Falan lent him a hand by taking his attacker from behind, then made his way to Leisa and her mistress, who, to his surprise, were also fighting. Several of their guardsmen, two on foot and one on horse, were fighting with them, encircling the woman to further protect them from harm.
One of their guardsmen thrust furiously with his spear at a highwayman on foot, but the man backed off and then released a bolt from his crossbow. The guardsmen went down and the highwayman tossed his crossbow at another guardsman, then unsheathed his sword, three other bandits on foot joining him.
Falan rode into the four men, his armored horse knocking the first two to the ground as he slashed through the shoulder of a third, mail and all. The fourth man went down after being stabbed from a guardsman in the neck. 
Falan turned toward the women. “Are you all right?” he shouted over the din.
Leisa gaped, mouth open as her mistress, who also seemed surprised, nodded firmly, a few strands of her hair fluttering in the wind.
About a dozen highwaymen lay dead or dying on the ground, the rest fleeing into the forest. Dust kicked up by the horses still settled as the captain and his men secured the road, making sure a second attack was not on the way. There would not be, though it was best to be safe. Highwaymen were generally cowards unless they had a strong advantage over their foe. They had been outnumbered at least two to one.
Leisa covered her mouth to stifle a cough. Her mistress turned to Falan. “Thank you for—for your assistance.” 
“I was glad to give it, lady,” he replied with a small bow, his eyes landing on the young lad with the red cheeks. His face seemed even ruddier than it had before. 
The greying captain along with some of his men, and Serin, rode up. “Mistress—“ He eyed Falan. “Mistress, I am certain those highwaymen will not be returning. I have scouts in the woods right now and they are retreating.”
“Apart from the few wounded stragglers we cut down,” Serin said.
Falan eyed his friend disapprovingly.
After the captain had asked Leisa and her mistress if they were unharmed, Falan noticed the Lady glancing at his sword. He had forgotten to sheath it. 
First Serin and now me, he thought. We must be leatherheads.
“Where did you get that sword, sir?” Leisa’s mistress asked. Falan noticed the title she used instead of “you” or “ruffian.”
The damned sword, he thought with irritation. He did not answer the lady mage and slid the blade back into its scabbard with a soft metallic his. He was sure Serin moved off to check on the tall red-faced lad kneeling before a horse to avoid undue attention. 
Why had I not listened to him? Serin had always been the wiser one. Falan was beginning to realize he should probably do the same and sell his sword. But it had been his father’s sword.
“Yes,” the mage finally said. “I see it now. No tavern brawler would hold himself the way you do. He would not even know how.” A hint of a smile seemed to touch the woman’s lips. Leisa looked to her mistress questioningly.
Falan did not say anything; he did not have to now. 
“How many men did you lose, Captain?”
The greying man’s frown lessened as he turned to the lady mage. “Eight out of thirty five, my lady... And five wounded.”
She seemed to ponder that for a moment. “Captain, have some of your men take the dead and wounded to the nearest keep. We must move on.”
The captain nodded. “Yes, my lady.”
She turned to Falan. “It seems we are in need of your swords after all...?”
Was she trying to recall his name? “Nogal, my lady,” he said with another bow. “Falan Nogal.” 
Her eyes fell on Serin with expectation.
“And I am Serin, my lady.”
“Just Serin?” 
“Just Serin, my lady.”
She raised an eyebrow. It was rude not to give a noble your full name unless you were a complete commoner, of which it was evident neither of them were. Even so, Falan thought, here he is, being the wiser again. They could have used different names, but it did not seem right, so Falan continued on giving his real name, his proper name, while Serin introduced himself only as Serin. It did not matter. The lady obviously knew what they were, but not who they were. Fortunately. 
They discussed payment and the terms of their contracts. The woman would not tell them what she was after or why, and that none of their questions would be answered if they asked. All Falan knew, was that they were looking for something, or someone, up north, and that they wanted to keep from trouble as best they could. Easy. The only down side was that the “caravan” was heading into Nelothar, which gave Falan pause for thought. Nelothar...the place they were trying to put as much distance between themselves as possible. They had even adopted Solen accents to fool anyone who asked where they were coming from.
The two men moved aside to confer between themselves. “I do not like this,” Serin said. “We are trying to get out, Falan!”
“Keep your voice down. The truth is, we need the gold. We have no idea what opportunities Valamor might offer—there might be none.”
Serin frowned, shaking his head.
“These people will avoid being seen if they can manage it,” Falan went on. “Chances are, we go in, do what they need done—she said we would only fight unless attacked—and get out with our pockets lined with gold.”
“Lined with gold,” Serin said, rolling his eyes. “It’s a commoner’s wage, Falan.”
“We are commoners now.” In truth, the amount of gold was better than a commoner’s wages, perhaps several years’ worth, but nothing compared to the amount of gold lords were used to. “Together we might have enough gold to purchase more swords. We could become mercenaries.”
“We already are mercenaries,” Serin said with disdain.
“We could start a profitable band—a company!” They would have to earn gold some way, and he did not know anything about farming or craftsmanship. But they were learnable skills.
“Fine,” Serin said reluctantly, “but I know I’m going to regret this, Falan.”
“Perhaps not,” Falan said, then the two men rejoined the group. “We agree to your terms, my lady,”
“I am glad we are in agreement,” she said, smiling. “My name is Sorela Casen. I am the court mage to high lord Warfink in Nalandor.”
If Falan looked startled, he tried not to show it. Serin passed along a surreptitious glance that seemed to say they had just made a mistake. 
If they did not further themselves in this current line of work, or something similar, would Falan buy a patch of land to farm on? He would certainly have the coin for it, enough to build a cottage. Maybe he would marry a southlander woman. They were beautiful. Well...that was what went about in the circles of the common soldier.
“Just know,” Lady Casen said, glancing from one man to the other. “If you cross me, you will regret it.” She booted her horse and rode to the front of the caravan. Leisa followed before casting Falan a quick smile.
They were off to Nelothar. They would have to be careful not to accidentally expose their identities to these people, or like the mage had said, they would regret it, and Falan did not intend to be captured and hauled to some dank prison where he would await execution.

FOURTEEN—Ruminations
It was noticeably colder now, the winds more chilled. It had not started to snow.
I hate the cold, Leisa thought. She was northern, having grown up in Nalandor, though the country was not as far north as Solen or Nelothar where it snowed more often than not. She wondered if they would see snowfall at the border. The land seemed to be climbing already. If Nelothar was a country of mountains, than the north of Nalandor were the foothills leading up to those mountains. 
The two Serafes—they seemed keen on that not getting around—were not bothered by the weather. They were from the north. From Solen. They looked it, with their long golden hair and chiseled faces. Would they have their chins high like that when a blizzard hit? The two men acted more like lords than soldiers. She sniffed, wondering why the two men sold their swords. She didn’t know Serafes could do that. They were supposed to be men of honor, of undying loyalty, fierce in battle, and even better when commanding troops. Or so Jasen had said. Most of them were conscripted because of their natural ability to—
The lady mage touched her arm, leaned closer from horseback. “I did not tell you this before, child,” she said as her breath turned frosty in the air, “but the day we were ambushed by those... you did well.”
Leisa was not accustomed to praise from the mage. Was that a smile on her face? Leisa realized her mouth was open and shut it. “Thank you, my lady,” she said, unable to hide the smile on her face. Leisa hadn’t been much help. I never even killed anyone, she thought. Not that she wanted to. But she hadn’t died, either. She knew though that the mage was not watching for her ability to wield a sword in battle, but for her ability to be brave, to persevere.
She wondered if the mage was still angry about that night in the inn. She had compared Leisa’s behavior to that of a—what was it? A slattern in a tavern? It almost rhymed!
“What is it, child? You seem distant.”
Leisa changed the subject by asking the woman a question that had been nagging her ever since the attack on the road. “My lady, why did you not use your—your mage craft that day—the day on the road?”
Sorela turned her head to peer toward the front of the column, her purple cowl hiding most of her face. “It is important,” she finally said, glancing at Leisa, “that we, as mages, do not use our powers for harm.”
Leisa frowned. “You mean, you can’t defend yourself?”
“I can,” she said. “Though I choose not to, when I can—most mages choose not to when they can help it, as we are supposed to.”
It doesn’t seem right, Leisa thought. “Why not?”
“Because, child—“ She was cut off as Brassen and Yeisel galloped past. They had recruited the two sell swords—or sell axe in Yeisel’s case—a few days gone. The lady mage seemed irritated at how close they rode past her. They galloped on, fur trimmed cloaks flapping in the wind. They were very... Leisa didn’t know the right word. Rough spirited, perhaps?
Brassen and Yeisel always seemed more boisterous when things went about, though this time they were obviously running off steam, or maybe hoarfrost in this case. Jasen seemed nervous when they spoke to him. He was nervous when anyone spoke to him, but especially the lady mage or those two. They were unable to keep calm for very long—nothing like Falan or Serin. Why was that? The Serafes were north men as well, but nothing at all like Brassen or Yeisel. She would have to ask them about that. Why wasn’t Jasen pestering them? He knew what they were.
She glanced over her shoulder. Captain Caldren should have been back by now. He had left with the two Serafes to find more “friends.”
The lady mage leaned in. “Are you free, child?”
Leisa blinked. When the mage spoke, she always demanded complete attention. “I’m sorry, my lady,” She said, glancing at Sorela before lowering her eyes. “Please continue.”
“Where was I?” she asked, obviously testing Leisa if she had been listening rather than investing her attentions on other, less important things. 
“You were telling me why mages avoid using their powers in self-defense, my lady.” She wasn’t certain, but Leisa thought she caught a hint of another smile behind the woman’s cowl.
“Yes,” Sorela said, her voice cool. “We only use our powers for good and the pursuit of knowledge. When the Hall of Mages was first founded, the mages therein swore an oath to serve, and not only to serve one nation, but all nations, so that the world might become a better place for it.”
Leisa nodded intently. “The Hall gives advice to rulers.”
“You will learn more of this when—if I should take you to the Hall, child.”
Was Sorela about to say “when”? Leisa smiled with excitement.
“Where is the Captain?” the mage asked, obviously trying to change the subject. Leisa had to work hard to suppress the unbidden smile on her face.

FIFTEEN—More Questionable Companions
Leisa sat with her in a privately reserved dining room. Frostwatch was a quiet inn located in the mountainous border town of Blinklight, where the borders of Nalandor and Nelothar intersected. It was considerably cleaner than Sorela thought it might be. The room was furnished with a table that could seat ten, as well as a crackling hearth and several other chairs and tables nestled in the corners of the modest room.
She had come down from her room after Leisa came through the door in a rush to announce that Falan had returned with more hirelings. Sorela all but chased the younger woman down to the common room. She had found the girl speaking with the tall Serafe concerning his latest journey.
 Perhaps Leisa is a bit too taken with him, she thought. The girl’s hands were animated, her eyes alight with childish glee. The girl was entirely too taken with the man, perhaps even smitten. The younger woman beamed whenever the Serafe was near and Falan did not discourage her either. Sorela did not like that, so she had snapped her finger, gesturing furtively for the younger woman to follow her into the dining room. They took chairs, Sorela at the head of the table near the back of the room, Leisa sitting next to her, her back facing the hearth.
It was not long before the small host of men with Captain Caldren and the two Serafes at the head, entered the dining room, trailed by four others, their cloaks sodden with melting hoarfrost from the warm environ of Frostwatch Inn.
“My lady,” the grizzled man said with a quick bow. “We have found more help.” He gestured to the four men standing behind him.
“Thank you, Thalus,” She got up from the table, eyeing the men. Harsh men. Three of them wore furs like those barbarians Brassen and Yeisel, though the last was decidedly less harsh looking. Not as tall, and he wore a bow case on his back and a short sword at his waist. Not the weapons of a north man. “Are you sure these men are suitable?” She glanced to the captain, but also to the two Serafes lingering at the door, who, if anyone, would surely know.
“They’re rough, mistress, but they know how to fight,” the captain said.
“I agree,” Falan said.
That the two men were in agreement was enough. She turned to the four men, crossed her arms. “Your names and titles?”
If any…
The shorter man with the bow case spoke first, pushing back his green-tanned leather cowl to reveal a young handsome face of dark complexion. “I am Eagen, Mistress,” he said with a low bow, “of house Hornwal.” 
He was obviously a southlander noble. A minor noble...very minor. Probably seeking fortune and adventure. He would surely find it where they were going. 
“Where does your house hale from, Master Hornwal?”
The young noble seemed mildly affronted she did not know where his house was located. “Valamor, my lady,” he said with a quick bow.
Being a noble herself, Sorela understood why the young man would be disgruntled, but it was impossible to know every house sigil and where said house was located within a dozen countries, not to mention the more minor houses, of which there were endless supply.
One of the other men, a tall muscular man with a great sword on his back, took the pause as an opportunity to step forward and introduce himself. The man had a bear hide cowl hanging over his head and two yellow braids, one on each side of his head that hung low to his chest. “Gorkis Sek,” he said in a deep voice without preamble. He thumped a fist to his chest, bowing his head as they did in the far west.
A commoner, Sorela thought, but the man was a warrior, a warrior where men like him had strange notions of loyalty and honor with little care for titles. He would do.
The other two men introduced themselves as Balin Thios, and Derin Sadon. Barbarians if ever she saw any. They almost resembled some of the filthy highwaymen that had attacked them. She looked them over doubtfully, but if the captain and the Serafes said they were suitable for what she needed... It was soldiers and warriors she needed, not footmen. Out of all the newest hirelings, she would be able to trust Gorkis Sek the most. The men of the west had strange notions of honor. Not that she would place trust in the man, but she took note anyway.
She looked the four men over, smiled graciously and introduced herself. She told them the same thing she had told the two Serafes, providing them with the same terms. 
As soon as they accepted her offer, Sorela smiled again, gestured for them to take chairs and signaled the innkeeper, who was waiting at the door, to approach.
“Yes, m’lady?” the innkeeper said rubbing his belly with both hands.
“Bring us supper,” she said, gesturing to the room.
“Aye, m’lady,” the innkeeper said with a quick bow before hurrying off.
Gorkis Sek and Eagan Hornwal smiled in delight surprise as they sat down. “Thank you, Mistress,” Hornwal said. Gorkis Sek nodded solemnly. Balin Thios and Derin Sadon simply pulled out chairs roughly, making a lot of noise. They acted as though they deserved this. 
Sorela turned to Leisa. “Tell the innkeeper to bring some of the food up to our room,” she said quietly. Even though these men were a part of her company now, the only man in the room she truly trusted was the captain. The wagons they had brought had enough dried meats and breads to last the company over a month, but her champions deserved at least one fine meal before they set out in earnest.
Later, after eating supper in their room, Sorela said, “I want you to keep your distance from Falan.” She said the words casually as she got up from the table. 
“My lady?” Leisa asked.
Sorela did not turn to look at the girl as she began preparing for the next day, the day they would cross the border into Nelothar. “He is a hireling, nothing more. I do not want you to become emotionally attached to a man you cannot have.”
The younger woman giggled like she had been told some joke. “Why do you think I want Falan Nogal?”
“I did not say that you did, child, but you will keep your distance from him, if only your emotional distance. If you are to become a mage and study at my side within the Hall, you must be diligent. I know he is handsome, but in the Hall you will have no time, not even for the thoughts of a man. Upon becoming a mage you may then arrange your affairs as you see fit. But until then, or until I decide that you are not worthy, do as I say.” Then she left the room and headed for the baths before Leisa could respond.

SIXTEEN—Encounter
Because of the terrain and the deepening snow, the mage had insisted they abandon the wagons and take only what they could carry, such as food and camp supplies. Would the ruse still hold when put to the test? 
Without the wagons—the traveling would be too slow in Nelothar—most everyone carried their own supplies.
Falan pulled his cloak tighter as a gust of wind hit him. The blizzard was not raging, but the snow fell thickly. Falan strained to see farther than twenty paces ahead as the column made its way up the mountainous road. He glanced toward the mage and her handmaiden. Lady Casen seemed not at all at odds with the weather. Surely she was using her power to shield herself from the cold. Leisa, however, wore a thick cloak. She was shivering.
Falan thought he had heard heated whispers from the mage. Something about, “Packing correctly for cold weather travel next time.”
Leisa jumped when he touched her slumped shoulder, though readily accepted the fur he held out in his hand with a word of thanks.
He turned to the mage. “What are you after?” He had forgotten to use any honorifics.
The woman seemed to take no notice. “You will know when we find it.” 
He noticed the conspicuous absence of the usual “sir” when she usually addressed him. His lips quirked into smile. “Why is it so important not to tell us...? Lady mage?”
She raised an eyebrow. “The less who know about what we are after, the better, Master Serafe.” 
He smiled again. Master Serafe now? Falan found himself eyeing a lock of dark hair that had slipped out the mage’s cowl. She glanced at him, noticed what he was looking at, and pulled her cowl further over her face. She was very pretty. “Do mage’s marry?” Was he really asking his employer such questions?
“Many mages do not think on such things,” Leisa blurted, cheeks reddening as the mage arched an eyebrow.
The lady mage said nothing and continued looking ahead into the thick blanket of snow. Finally she said, “Many prefer not to marry.” 
He did not expect her to reply after that remark Leisa had made. 
“The work of a mage leaves little time for anything else.” She glanced at Leisa with what seemed to be a knowing look. “A wife has her duties, as does a mage—a woman can hardly do both.” The mage seemed to be addressing Leisa. “Marriage is not frivolous. But being a mage is another calling.”
“But you said—“ 
The lady mage raised a hand, cutting the younger woman off. “I know what I said, child. We all have our places—know yours.”
Leisa, now even more abashed, pulled her cowl further over her head, glanced at the tracks in the snow beside her horse.
“So then, some of them do marry?” Falan asked again.
The lady mage shrugged slightly. “Very few. But yes, some do marry. Why do you ask, sir?”
Falan could not tell if the slight face she made was annoyance or just a grimace against the cold. “No reason,” he said carefully. “I just wanted...” He trailed off as a mounted figure appeared ahead. 
“Captain,” the soldier called when he got closer, a large plume of frosted breath leaving his icy beard. What was the man’s name?
“What is it, Sen?” the captain asked, voice alert as he stepped forward. “What did you see?”
“A patrol, Captain. Not a mile off.”
Sorela turned to the captain, her eyes wide. 
“We have to get off the road,” Falan said. He glanced behind him to see Serin sitting straight in his saddle, ready for anything. The others—the other hirelings and the captain’s men alike—seemed to be on their guard as well.
“Let them come,” Brassen said hoarsely. Yeisel smiled a toothy smile of crooked teeth.
The stable boy rode up. “What about our disguise?” 
Leisa turned to the young man. “We left everything at the border. They wouldn’t believe us if we really were a merchant caravan.”
“The Serafe is right, my lady,” Thalus said quietly. The mage nodded and the captain turned to address the column. “Everyone, on me. We ride into the mountains.” He made his way directly off the road and into the thick forest of tall evergreens.
“They will track us,” Serin said, “even if we work to obscure our trail, there’s too many of us to do it properly, and not enough time, besides.”
Thalus’ tracks were already partially obscured. Maybe they would get lucky. The lady mage and Leisa followed the captain, disturbing the snow once more. Serin was right, but maybe that patrol would mistake the tracks for a herd of horncows by the time they got here. Not likely. Not if a single one of those men were experienced trackers. They were... The men of the north were capable, even during a blizzard. It was wishful thinking to hope. 
“I know,” Falan finally said, then booted his horse toward the hills and trees.

SEVENTEEN—A Dangerous Uncertainty
Leisa realized she had stopped shivering. In fact, she was sweating. She wondered for a moment why that was as she packed away the fur Falan had given her. Was her blood pumping faster? Her heart seemed to want to escape her chest. She certainly was afraid, she admitted. She glanced toward the lady mage. 
She’s not afraid, Leisa thought. She booted her stocky horse to keep up with the others. The terrain here was rough and trees grew close together. She had to bow her head more than once following Sorela. It would not be hard to get separated from the group in this forest and then find that you were lost. At least it wasn’t the bloody Blackwood.
They rode on, up the mountain for what seemed like hours. Leisa put on the fur cloak again after her initial fear died down. Why did fear make you forget about the cold?
The outrider, Sen, rode up beside the captain and Falan, who were riding abreast of each other. The thin man with the ice-crusted beard leaned in to speak with the captain for a moment, then wheeled his horse and rode toward the back of the column. The captain raised a hand, signaling the column to stop. He wheeled his horse around to address the lady mage. “My lady... they follow.”
Falan edged his horse a little closer as his friend Serin rode up. Sorela seemed to think for a moment. “I am a mage,” she finally said, “Not a soldier. Captain, you are in charge of the column until we have escaped this danger.”
“Yes, my lady,” the captain said with a quick glance toward Falan. Leisa had no doubt who was the better warrior, or even the better leader, but the lady mage did not seem to place as much trust in Falan as she did Lord Warfink’s captain—she only wanted the skill of his sword, and that of Serin’s. Falan did not seem to care that she chose her captain over him, though. “They know we’re avoiding them,” Caldren—or “Thalus,” rather—continued. “They are sure to think us enemy invaders. They will pursue us through these mountains until they catch us.”
Serin glanced toward Falan, his face grim. “We have to face them.”
“Captain?” Sen asked, after being called forward.
“How many men in the patrol?”
“Twenty, mayhaps thirty—I don’t know,” Sen said. “I could hardly see for the snow falling.”
Leisa looked Jasen in the eye as he shivered in his cloak, pike in hand. “Do you think it will come to another fight, like on the road?” she whispered.
He rolled his shoulders in a shrug, pulling his cloak tighter. His red cheeks had a pale look now.
The captain scratched his chin. “We could set up an ambush.”
Serin gave his friend another one of those solemn looks. Falan breathed in deeply. The lady mage took notice. “What is it, Master Falan?” 
Falan glanced toward the snow for a moment as he leaned across his saddle. He gestured toward his friend. “We are not Solen,” he said.
His accent had vanished.
“I think we may be able to meet the patrol following us and have them move off.”
Lady Casen’s eyes were wide, though she said nothing. 
Is she... in shock? Leisa wondered. 
For once the mage actually seemed afraid. The woman shook herself, tone stiff. “Very well, Falan. Do as you must.”
“And if the captain of the patrol decides the orders from his Serafe outrank my own?” Falan asked.
Lady Casen did not answer as she wheeled her horse. “We must continue on, Captain.”
The captain glanced between Falan and Sorela. What was going on? “Yes, my lady,” Thalus said, then to the column he shouted, “Move out.”
The two Serafes—Blackwood take me, they’re Nelothan!—wheeled their horses and headed down the column. 
Falan gestured toward some of the men on foot. She could not make out what he said, but it was obvious he was picking them for a skirmish. She leaned in to speak to the mage. “My lady, how did you not know he was—“
Sorela’s voice was a stifled whisper. “Shush, child! I know what I am doing.”
Leisa’s heart skipped a beat. 
She glanced over her shoulder but the two Serafes were already gone, guardsmen trailing after them....
Sorela glanced over her shoulder as well, then booted her horse abreast of the captain. The two spoke in hushed, but urgent tones, the lady mage more so than the captain. After a moment the greying man finally nodded his head, wheeled his horse and trotted his horse down the length of the column.
Jasen groaned. “They’re spies...”
Leisa frowned. “I don’t think so. If they wanted to capture us, they would have snuck off to bring that patrol down on our heads. Wouldn’t they?”
Jasen’s eyes widened as if her question sparked the realization that that was exactly what was happening.
She sniffed. “Don’t be such a goose. They wouldn’t have taken some of the men with them if that’s what they were going to do.”
“Unless they want to cover themselves from any of our suspicions,” Jasen said as he gave her a sidelong glance, unconvinced.
“I don’t believe that’s what they’re doing, and neither does the Sorela. Trust her, if you trust no one else.” 
He’s just paranoid, she told herself, then rode ahead to join the lady mage…

EIGHTEEN—Return of the Serafes
Sorela cursed quietly. She was not one to use vulgarities; they were below a noblewoman, especially a noblewoman who was a mage of the Hall. How could she have been so remiss? She knew Falan and Serin were north men, but they had led her to believe they were from Solen, not the very country they were in.
Diligence! she told herself forcefully.
She would have told the captain to cut the two Serafes down, but unless you caught them off guard there was little chance two dozen men-at-arms could stop them. No, she would have to surprise the two men as they returned. It was the only way to ensure they did not escape, or kill half the guardsmen on their way out.
The captain did not understand why she had let them leave. She knew he would have attacked them had she ordered him to, without question.
“My lady, what is going on?” Leisa asked. Under the circumstances, Sorela did not admonish the girl’s impatient tone.
“Keep your voice down.” Thalus said. “Do you want my men to panic?”
Serafes—it did not matter which country they were from—were held in very high esteem among the common soldier. Sorela had heard firsthand how they spoke of Serafes in awe over camp fires. 
They are only soldiers, she told herself. Bored, superstitious soldiers did like to spread fables. “Falan and Serin,” she whispered to Leisa, “will not side with us if violence becomes necessary against their countrymen. In fact, they may even be spies.”
Leisa seemed to take it in, though with some doubt. “But they seemed so loyal before?”
Sorela’s lips quirked into a wry smile involuntarily. “The enemy is among us, child. We must—“
“My lady,” the captain interrupted. “I have prepared the column for the return of Falan Nogal and Serin. We should be ready for them when they arrive.”
She nodded. I certainly hope so, Sorela thought, Captain Commander of the Castle Guard. She wanted to trust he could handle these two men. She could not completely put aside some of her doubts. The guardsmen were as ready as they could be. Five remained to guard Leisa and herself as the others took up positions a few dozen paces away, as if seemingly holding down the camp, though in truth, when the two Serafes returned, they would encircle the two men as they approached. It was the captain’s idea to lay an ambush. 
It would be a fight to the death. 
The guardsmen—guardsboys more like—returning with the two men would immediately choose the side of the captain, and the hirelings would chose the side of their employer, making the two Serafes have to contend with very uneven odds. It was a good plan, but Sorela could not help but feel an air of nervousness. Was it fear? Would she use her powers to kill their attackers if need be? She had never had to do it before and did not want to start now. She might not be able to, even to save lives....
I am a mage of the Hall, she reminded herself. I do not kill.
“Lady mage,” the captain said. “What is to stop Falan and Serin from having my men killed as soon as they meet that patrol? They could ambush us on their way back.”
Possible, though unlikely. It would have been easy enough for either of the two men to sneak off during the night, or even send a bird... Unless they were useless fops. Serafes were not. No, the patrol would have ambushed them on the first, instead of waiting to be discovered by the captain’s outriders. There was something else at play here. She shook her head. “No, Captain. I think not.” Then to Leisa she said, “When the fighting starts, stay behind me.”
“I can take care of myself.”
“Perhaps,” she told the younger woman. “But you will obey me.” She made her voice firm as she met Leisa’s eyes. She would not let the girl get herself killed just to prove herself, the wool brained little fool.
It’s good she has spirit. But now is not the time.

NINETEEN—Lords and Captains 
They waited for the patrol to happen along their path. One of the outriders already saw them.
Falan saw the man as well. 
They held eyes for a moment before the outrider wheeled his horse to report to his captain.
Falan made sure only a few men were visible; himself, Serin, Brassen, Yeisel and three guardsmen. The rest were stationed behind the trees on either side of their flank, just in case things went badly.
Serin stirred in his saddle. “Why did you tell the mage?”
Falan scratched at the three days growth on his face. “She would have discovered it eventually. Better she find out on our terms.” Most likely the mage would have had their throats cut in the night. Whatever her mission, he thought, it seems clandestine enough to warrant such things.
“The shores of Valamor are sounding like music to my ears right now,” Serin said.
Brassen spit. “With whores and wine to your hearts content! You’ll grow soft—you will, livin’ like that. Fat as pigs” he cackled, hefting his sword. It was notched from heavy use.
A figure on horseback finally appeared through the haze. More shapes materialized behind him until there were near ten mounted men. Two of them booted their horses forward, as did Falan and Serin. “Let’s hope this goes smoothly,” Falan muttered.
The two riders stopped several paces away. Heavy cavalry. One of the men wore chain mail, breastplate and an open half helm tied with a red band. “I am Captain Kalin Seswal,” he said in a rough voice. “On behalf of the High Lord Nightkar and my Liege Lord, Walis Birtran, I demand to know why you and your company have removed yourselves from the highway.”
The man beside Seswal held a spear tipped banner of house Vorkal with armor similar to his captain. Falan eyed Serin askance, straightened in his saddle a little, not that it was very much, he always held himself high. “And I am Lord Falan Nogal, Serafe to the High Lord Malkar, Captain.”
Captain Kalin Seswal cocked his head, eyes going wide.
Did he know?
Abruptly Seswal wheeled his mount. “Attack!” he shouted, frantically booting his horse. “Attack!”
How had the word gotten out so quickly? It had only been a few weeks! He drew his sword, booting his mount after the man in an attempt to kill the captain on the outset to demoralize his men. 
Seswal’s cavalry were already charging forward. 
Falan reigned in, wheeled his mount in retreat exactly as the captain had. Brassen and Yeisel moved forward on the right flank as Serin moved left. Falan booted his horse to join Serin as the three guardsmen accompanying them advanced forward, pikes raised.
Swords clashed, and Falan removed the first man from his path after slashing across the man’s half helm with a metal on metal scrape, dehorning him.
“Left flank!” Seswal bellowed. “Advance!” At least ten more cavalrymen came charging from the trees, swords raised. They were now outnumbered more than two to one as horse and rider moved about slashing and parrying blows. 
Falan parried a slash from another rider, then drove his sword through mail into ribs. 
Serin bashed an unarmored head with the hilt of his sword, sending another rider to the ground.
Two of the men-at-arms were down. 
Only one left—he would not last long without help. 
Falan booted his mount toward the pikeman thrusting viciously, trying to keep mounted men from taking off his head. He neared the guardsmen, parried a sword slash that would have cleaved the pikeman’s arm off and kicked the rider from his saddle. The pikeman dashed, thrust his weapon into the confounded rider.
Abruptly a new beat of hooves came from the left flank, except they came to help. Falan had ordered Gorkis Sek, Eagan Hornwal and five other cavalrymen and ten men-at-arms with pikes and crossbows to hold, down behind the trees. It had been luck that Seswal’s flanking force had not discovered them as they prepared their ambush. 
We have this! The skirmish was on an even footing with Seswal’s cavalry, except Falan’s force had crossbows. Very effective, even against barded cavalry.
Whinnies erupted. 
Falan parried a sword, kicked a rider from his mount.
Suddenly Seswal came at Falan with a grunt of effort as he slashed for his ribs. Blades met and their mounts clashed, teeth gnashing. 
Seswal fought well, almost too well for his class, but Falan managed to angle their locked blades downward, then bashed into Seswal’s face with a blow that glanced off his red-sashed helm. He lost balance, seized Falan’s arm in an attempt to stay upright.
Both men hit the icy ground. 
Snarling, Seswal was abruptly on top of him, dagger in hand. “Die, oath breaker!”
Falan tried to get a boot under Seswal’s cuirass when the captain cried out, rolling off him. 
Seswal staggered to his feet, clutching a bloody calf where an arrow protruded. He was fortunate to catch hold of a passing mount without a rider. He booted the animal with his good leg. “Retreat!” He called. “Fall back!”
Falan had fought his share of battles, but the fray still felt like it lasted much longer than it had. Eight men lay dead in the blood-splashed snow, five of them Falan’s responsibility.
Serin shook his head after realizing Seswal only lost three men, and only four mounts. “We have to get back! They could return with reinforcements.”
“Leave the dead,” Falan said as he mounted his horse. Some of their number had been wounded. They could still carry on. Fortunately.
Eagan Hornwal’s arrow could be the reason Falan was still standing. He nodded to the man. “I think it likely the good captain will ride back to his camp for reinforcements. Could be five or even ten miles. We have some time.”
The only reason Seswal had retreated was because of his leg wound. The kid’s a good shot, Falan told himself wryly. He stifled mirth. Men had died here this night...

TWENTY—Cold Steel
The blood-stained Serafes rode into the clearing, the other survivors close behind. Some of them were wounded.
Sorela had not expected them to return.
“Lady Mage,” Falan said, “We were forced to fight. The captain of the patrol
“Stay where you are, Serafe!” Captain Caldren bellowed. “Both of you!” He motioned to his men-at-arms. “All—on me!”
The men-at-arms, mounted and on foot, moved over to their side. The mercenaries returned confused glances, then obeyed, moving in to block the Serafes off.
Sorela saw Serin’s hand glide toward his sword hilt. There’s going to be blood, she thought reluctantly, but Falan shook his head minutely when he saw the other man moving for his sword.
“Crossbows!” The captain called, and a dozen men-at-arms at the edges of the camp narrowed in on the two Serafes.
Falan eyed the captain and herself carefully, seemingly confused. “My lady... What is this?”
“You know what this is, Falan Nogal,” she said, straightening in her saddle with a quick glance at Leisa beside her. “You are a Nelothan Serafe!” 
Falan exhaled, glanced toward the other Serafe as if ruefully acknowledging something. She expected Falan to say something, but the man kept quiet. “Why do a pair of Serafes—men who are supposed to be loyal above all else—attack their own countrymen?” she asked.
“They attacked us,” Serin said sharply. “We only defended ourselves.”
“Mind your tongue, sir,” Caldron said, his tone dangerous.
Sorela raised her hand. Something was not right, and bickering would solve nothing. We have to find out what this is, she told herself. “Why would they do that when you are both Serafes of the realm of Nelothar?” 
“Lady Mage,” Falan said. “We do not have time to speak about this. The captain of that patrol escaped. He will return to his camp—and it will likely be a large camp—he will undoubtedly report to his commander of what happened.”
“They will hunt us down like dogs,” the other Serafe said.
The captain glanced at her. She could see uneasiness in the man’s grey-blue eyes. What was the right plan of action? Kill the two Serafes? Or not...and risk everything?
Diligence, she reminded herself. I’m not accustomed to making life and death decisions like these. She would choose a decision that would bring death—not now.
“Very well, Falan Nogal. As long as both of you agree to relinquish your swords—“
“No!” Serin snapped, a metallic his accompanying his objection.
Falan moved a hand to ward off the other man. “Serin—wait!”
The crossbowmen were ready to fill them with bolts at an eye blink from the captain. “If they try anything...anything! Kill them,” the Caldren hissed through his teeth. “That goes for you too, hirelings!”
They shifted uneasily.
“We are not going to do anything,” Falan said.
Wise choice, Sorela thought, but not wise enough... “If you will not give up your swords—“ 
Something traveled through the air beside them. Bodies jerked with surprise and heads swiveled.
“Ambush!” Falan bellowed, booting his mount without delay, Serin close behind him.
Men scrambled, screaming to meet their attackers. Sorela glanced toward Leisa. “Follow!” She booted her animal after the two Serafes. She had no choice but to leave the slumped captain behind as she and Leisa made for their escape during the confusion.
“But—but captain—“
“Follow, girl!” Sorela bellowed.
Trying to stay low, she made for the tree line, certain Leisa was close behind when dozens of cavalrymen burst from the thick evergreens. They mixed ranks and Leisa shrieked.
Sorela barely glimpsed a flash of steel before the ice-covered ground rushed up at her.

TWENTY-ONE—Glinting Blades
It was a wonder they had got passed the cavalry. Several riders were on their tail now. Too many men were needed for the assault on their camp; otherwise they would have had a dozen men after them.
How had Seswal alerted his men so quickly? Would his countrymen slaughter everyone back at camp, or take captives? 
Falan booted his mount up an icy incline. He glanced back to make sure Serin was still with him. It was cowardly to run, but also the right decision. Seswal’s commander was certainly determined to kill or capture everyone in Lady Casen’s company. Falan had quickly assessed the situation after Thalus was killed, deciding on retreat.
Serin was close behind. “How many?” Falan shouted as they crested the incline.
Serin glanced over his shoulder. “Three—maybe five, I can’t be sure!”
Falan leaned left, avoiding an ice-covered branch, then right to avoid another as he and Serin crisscrossed through the forest. “We have to face them,” he called to the other man. “We cannot continue riding like this.” If they ran their mounts into the ground trying to escape, they would have no chance.
Serin pulled his rains, wheeling his horse, Falan close behind. Their pursuers were not far behind—a few score strides at most. “Hammer and anvil,” Serin shouted, and booted his horse into the trees on his right.
Falan went left.
Hammer and anvil was a tactic designed to encircle the enemy’s flanks in a pincer maneuver. It was not ideal with just two men.
Hoof beats came to a crescendo, then stopped when their pursuers entered the clearing. “Where are they?” one of the cavalrymen shouted.
They wheeled their horses about, searching. “The tracks...” another man said, “they stop. No—wait, they lead this way.” 
That was his signal. 
Falan booted his horse out of the trees, sword ready. The first man barely had time to look up as Falan’s blade went through his neck, nearly taking off a head.
The other riders wheeled in Falan’s direction as Serin exposed himself to their backs, steel flashing. Men screamed and died in the confusion as the two Serafes went to work, the Nelothan cavalrymen not knowing whether to fight or turn to parry a sword thrust from behind.
Falan crossed swords with another soldier, parried the attack, then delivered a killing blow while Serin took down another on his side, swords glinting in the moonlight.
Falan dismounted beside a flailing cavalryman with only one arm, blood spirting from his stump as he screamed and kicked in and out of a fetal position. The snow was a bloody mess.
Falan finished him off. He felt a pang of guilt killing his countrymen. It was a mercy... Better a quick death than a long one. “Was that all of them?” 
“I think so,” Serin said, sheathing his bloody sword.
They booted their animals and continued their escape, though slowing their pace after a few more minutes of hard riding.
If the others are not dead, Falan thought, we have to go back for them. First they would have to find an area that provided enough opportunity for them to obscure their trail. They were only two men—it would not be difficult. Afterward they could track their attackers back to their camp, then make plans for a rescue. 
Would it be worth the gold?
Falan was surprised by his own greed. It stabbed. He had more honor than that!

TWENTY-TWO—Bruises and Other Worries
After they tied her ankles they bound her wrists behind her back against the tent pole. Why had the lady mage been gagged? They didn’t gag Leisa. After her panic wore down she was able to think more clearly. She’s a mage, silly goose, she told herself. Were mages able to use their magic through incantation? It was possible, not that it mattered very much. Lady Casen was still slumped over, unconscious from the blow she’d taken from one of those vicious cavalrymen.
At least the tent was warm. A large brazier crackled quietly a few paces away, giving off enough heat to keep her from shivering against the cold. She could hardly believe she cared about warmth at a time like this.
Captain Caldron was dead... so much blood as he clutched at his neck before slumping dead in his saddle. Poor man.
And Jasen... what happened to him?
Apart from being tied up, the only other discomfort beside her uneasiness of mind was the hunger. She felt hollow. Her belly growled when the limping guard entered the tent. He sat, lifted a cover from an earthenware plate and began to eat, all the while keeping an eye on them.
It was only midday, but it felt like days had passed since the ambush. The guard’s leg wound seemed fresh. Could he have gotten that injury during the skirmish Falan spoke about? She wondered, eyeing the man’s red-sashed half helm.
The guard ate sloppily at his roast chicken and potatoes. Her stomach made a noise in protest. The guard heard, smirked. He paid her little more attention while he ate, sticking at bits of his meal with a short dagger.
She glanced at the Sorela. What would happen now? Leisa hadn’t seen anyone from the camp. None of them were brought into the tent, but perhaps that was simply because she and the lady mage were women. Women were treated better. But it didn’t seem that way, eyeing the purple welt on the Sorela’s temple. She was sleeping, so Leisa tried not to disturb her, since during the night, she had moved a lot. At one point, Leisa had thought she heard the mage moan, but that must have been her imagination.
For some long it had seemed that nothing could harm Sorela—or any mage for that matter.
But that’s not the truth. 
 It had been a full night and another half day and a physician still hadn’t looked at her. Nelothans certainly took their time. If not to check on Lady Casen, shouldn’t they have at least sent someone to talk to them? “She might have a concussion,” she told the guard for what seemed like the tenth time. “Bring a physician! Please.”
Her guard dropped a chunk of meat onto his plate. No, he tossed it. “I said shut it, you little wench!”
Leisa exhaled in frustration. 
She imagined the others taken from a palisade with guards on all sides, then lead to a gibbet for hanging. Jasen’s face materialized within her mind. It wouldn’t be far off from expected. 
Would they hang the lady mage? Herself perhaps? Her stomach heaved when she imagined her own corps swinging from a noose, crows atop her head gouging out her eyes. She winced. 
They wouldn’t hang Sorela—it just wasn’t done—not to mages. But Leisa was just a handmaiden. It was probably best they didn’t offer her any food or she’d surely wretch it back up.
Maybe some of the others escaped... If they had, they were probably leagues from there by now. There was nothing to do, just wait. Wait until these Nelothans decided what to do with her.
They would probably hang Leisa. Soldiers were always harsh during wartime, no matter what country they were from, weren’t they?
Why had she wanted to come? The lady mage warned her it would be dangerous, but she didn’t think it would be like this. Not like this.
She blinked away wetness. More came. She should have stayed in the castle. She should never have wanted to rise above her station—not even to become a mage. Leisa wished she had never met Sorela. She tried to hold it in, to not show the angry man shoving food into his mouth with that ugly little dagger that she was afraid. 
But it was too late, and it was normal to cry when you were afraid of dying.

TWENTY-THREE—Preparations
They crested a hill overlooking the war camp. Below a sentry stood guard. Well... sort of. The sentry was relieving himself, steam rising from his stream. The man finished, continued making his rounds. Another sentry was not far off.
The two Serafes were concealed where they were. The war camp lay in a large clearing.
“It will be difficult,” Serin said, moving back.
Falan nodded. Yes, it would be difficult. “Not impossible,” he said. “We have gotten into more heavily guarded camps than this.”
A wry smile cropped up on Serin’s face. “They better pay extra gold.”
Falan stifled a laugh. If a single sentry spotted them, it would be all but impossible to get into the camp undiscovered. They would not be able to break out everyone, assuming “everyone” was still alive. It was unlikely they would have killed either of the two women, especially the mage, not that they knew what she was, but she did have an air of nobility about her, and women, especially nobility, were not killed during war time, not be civilized armies at least.
“We will wait for nightfall,” Serin said, “take down a couple sentries and dawn their cloaks.”
Falan nodded. They would have to make the switch just before a change in the guard so they would not be questioned as to why they were leaving their posts. “Half the guards probably know each other.”
“Luck, Falan,” the other man said. “A little luck is all we need.”
Falan arched an eyebrow. “And if luck does not hold?” 
Serin smiled. “Then we get the rope.”
The rope.... 
Falan looked over the crest. The sentry made his way along the outskirts of the camp, crisscrossing paths with other sentries.
“We should have never taken this contract,” Serin said quietly.
And we would be as poor as any pauper, Falan thought. After breaking out Sorela and her handmaiden Leisa, they would negotiate new terms—terms many times larger than their original agreement. 
Was gold really the reason he was here?
Breaking prisoners out of a war camp was not something done lightly. The lady mage would have to return having failed. Whatever that failure was.
And then on to Valamor.
They retreated to a safer spot a mile into the forest. Falan built a pitted fire to obscure the flame from anyone wandering about who might see. Unless an intruder stumbled directly onto their camp, they had nothing to worry about. It was very unlikely that would happen. Sentries would not come out this far, and patrols... there would be no patrols—the risk of injuring horses in the dark were high, and there was no point in patrolling random stretches of the mounained forests when the roads were what needed to be watched.
When full dark was upon them, the two men moved back to the hill overlooking the war camp. They would escape with the certainty their pockets would be lined with gold. Or... they would have ropes around their necks within the next few hours.
Much must be risked in war, Falan told himself. Serafes knew that. But this was not war.

TWENTY-FOUR—Questions
Sorela waited for the limping officer—cursing as he went—to leave before struggling against her restraints. She glanced around, wild eyed. Afraid? Why? Leisa wondered. The mage wouldn’t be executed.
Leisa struggled against her chafing bonds too. It was the first time they’d been alone. She eyed the other woman’s restraints. Her hands were purple. Her own wrists didn’t feel the way lady casen’s looked. Maybe she was just numb by now. Of course they would be afraid of the mage, but what if Leisa were to escape and free her? 
Fools, she thought, but she knew she wouldn’t escape. “My lady?” Sorela turned to meet her eyes for the first time, though she couldn’t say anything, for the gag in her mouth. “Do something!” Leisa pleaded.
The woman’s eyes drifted to the fur she was on, then went up toward the entry as bootsteps on gravel neared the tent. There must have been at least three men. Leisa was correct. The officer with the limp strode in, pushing the flap aside, followed by a crossbowman and a regal-looking man in full plate armor adorned with a white hawk’s head laid across two spears on black. A lord.
Maybe he wouldn’t have her executed.
“My lord,” the officer said, gesturing to Sorela. “We were lucky. Didn’t know there was a mage about ‘til after we found her face down in the snow.” He glanced at Leisa. “The other is unimportant—a camp follower perhaps.”
Leisa cocked her head, though decided against saying anything.
“She’s not a camp follower, you fool,” the lord said with a frown. “She’s a handmaiden, or possibly an apprentice?” He turned to Leisa. “Tell me, girl, what is your relation to the mage?”
Leisa gave her best answer to keep from the gibbet. “You are correct, my lord,” she lied. “I am the mage’s apprentice.”
He nodded, then turned to the man with the limp. “Ungag the mage, Captain.”
Lady Casen’s gag was removed while the crossbowman trained his weapon between her eyes. Sorela licked her lips. 
“I am Lord Walis Birtran.” The man put a hand to his breast plate. “I am the Lord Serafe Commander of this camp.”
Sorela cleared her throat with as much dignity as could be expected. “Lady Sorela Casen, daughter of Lord Morgrath, Mage of the Hall and advisor to High Lord Warfink of Nalandor.”
Lord Birtran smiled. “Quite the title, my lady. And is it true this lovely young woman beside you is also your apprentice?”
Sorela didn’t hesitate, confirming Lord Birtran’s question with a nod of her head.
“Captain Seswal tells me you are raiders.”
Sorela made a face. “How many raiders have you known to be headed by a mage?”
Birtran chuckled. “The captain is of low birth, lady mage, he would not know of such things. What I really want to know is why you travel with two Serafes—oath breakers at that—Lord Falan Nogal and Minor Lord, Serin Dasal. Have they sworn themselves over to Lord Warfink?”
Leisa’s eyes nearly popped out of her head. They were lords? And oath breakers? If the lady mage was as taken aback as Leisa, she didn’t show it. 
“I did not know of their titles, nor that they broke any oaths,” Sorela said, “I only agreed to pay them to accompany us on our quest.”
Birtran’s eyebrows raised. “What quest?”
“We are searching for someone.”
He smiled. “You will have to tell me more than that, my lady—and did you not think it odd that two Serafes would work for gold payment? Surely you knew they were Serafes at least.”
“I knew,” Sorela admitted, “though I did not know they were Nelothan. They spoke with...accents not of this region. And what a man decides to do with his sword is his business. I did not feel the need to ask why.”
If they are lords, Leisa thought, why do they need gold? Surely a lord didn’t need to sell his sword. Lords had plenty of gold—even minor ones. She shook herself from her thoughts.
“Again, lady mage, you avoid telling me who you are after,” Lord Birtran said. “It is in your best interest to tell me the truth. For all that I know, you are both spies!”
“You know full well, sir, that the Hall does not take sides,” Sorela said calmly. “No sides and all sides.”
Birtran nodded amicably as if recalling this forgotten information. “Then why did you attack a Nelothan patrol? Why have you wandered into this country in secret?”
“Upon discovering—“ Sorela began. 
Birtran cut her off. “Who are you after?” he shouted.
Sorela kept a calm demeanor, though she said nothing. Was she deciding on how to answer? Would she lie? She told the truth however. “We are searching for Lord Warfink’s son, Jalen Warfink. The last we heard, he was at castle Fellwind near the Blackwood.”
Lord Birtran stroked his chin. “Go on.”
“He has gone missing since the beginning of this war,” Sorela said. “We do not know if he has been killed or if the high lord has taken him hostage. We are here to find out—that is all.”
“If you are so afraid that Lord Warfink’s son has been taken hostage, why have you not made contact with his supposed captors for ransom and release?”
Sorela didn’t answer. Lord Birtran came to the obvious conclusion. “Yes,” he said, “If the boy has indeed not been taken captive, it would be in your best interest to not let his enemies know he’s within their borders.” The conclusion seemed to satisfy him to a degree. “The boy has not been taken captive by any Nelothan, nor is he at Castle Fellwind. I would know.”
Sorela seemed baffled, in mild shock almost. Lord Birtran continued. “Castle Fellwind was among the first strongholds to be raided by the Soles.” He laughed. “It would surprise you to know that while the keep was taken, winged Fellbeasts from the Darkwood took most of the invaders away, along with some of our own, including Lord Nemen.” Then dismissively he added, “Your query is dead. And you Lady Casen, will be taken to the high lord so that he can decide what to do with you.”
Lord Birtran turned to leave the tent, but stopped when Sorela spoke. “And what of my apprentice, Lord?”
Leisa’s heart skipped a beat as he eyed her for a moment, then waved a hand. “She will be hanged with the rest of your company.”
“What?” Leisa shrieked.  
“Be quiet, child!” Sorela hissed.
How could she be quiet? She was about to be hanged.
No! They can’t do this! 
“Lord Serafe,” Sorela continued. “If you do this, there will be consequences. Master Mages Kolan and Fenwar are currently in your capital negotiating with your superiors. As soon as I see them—“
Lord Birtran chuckled. “The summit is over, lady mage. King Dalthan has left, and your master mages have been sent back to the Hall.” He smiled. 
 “Lord Birtran, you cannot do this! It is against custom. Mages and—“
“This is war, lady mage,” he said sternly. “And custom is... well, only custom.” He smiled again, then his face became hard. “Consequences indeed!” He left the tent.
“I will not let this happen, Leisa, I swear it! Child... Look at me!” Leisa obeyed with bleary eyes. “Trust me, I will not—“ 
Sorela was cut off as the captain gagged her, then told the soldier with the crossbow to keep a careful eye on them. “Wouldn’t want them to escape before justice is served,” he said, limping out of the tent.

TWENTY-FIVE—Mailed Fist
They kept a close watch on the guard rotations before making their move in the early morning. “This cloak reeks,” Serin said as they made for the camp. They took out the two sentries just before rotation.
“Welcome to a grunt’s life,” Falan replied. The war camp, though not large, was not small. The commander was obviously commissioned to watch the roads leading through the pass and to stop cross-country travel of enemy forces.
The two men held their crossbows where all could see, their swords kept hidden beneath their cloaks. Common soldiers did not use the swords of Serafes. Serin’s was a common soldiering sword, but Falan had refused to give up his, which had a red ruby incrusted in the pummel. 
The camp was docile. Soldiers huddled together around fires cooking meat and roasting whatever vegetables were available. Most were cold weather roots and potatoes, though some of the higher born ate fresh vegetables brought in from the south. It was a wonder the high lord was still importing luxury foods when he needed all the gold he could muster to fight this war against the Soles.
They would have to break the captives out quietly. If they were discovered, it was unlikely they would escape with a score of cavalrymen after them. Serin peeked into a tent, muttering an apology. Most were shared by a dozen or more common soldiers, though officers had tents to themselves, or at least, shared with other officers.
“There,” Falan said, nodding at a moderately sized pavilion. The two men approached, Serin making to stand as if waiting on an officer. Falan peeked inside, saw the two women tied to the poles. A crossbowman guarded them. Falan turned, striding down the main thoroughfare, Serin abreast of him. “They are in there.”
“And the plan?”
“I’m not...” Falan trailed of, distracted by a distinct sound, the sound of a leaver and a quick snap. He spotted a crude palisade holding near ten men captive. His eyes widened when they came upon the swaying form. It was Eagan Hornwal. Falan cursed. Inside the palisade, he recognized Gorkis, Brassen, and some of the guardsmen from the camp, including the tall stable boy. He turned away before they could recognize him. Most of the group was not within those confines. They must have been killed, he thought, and those that were not, were being hanged one at a time.
Thalus was killed during the ambush that got them into this mess. He was the first man to go down. If it had not been an ambush, a hunting accident for instance, the lady mage might have been able to save the man. But it did not matter—not now at least.
“There is nothing we can do, Falan,” Serin said, putting a hand on his shoulder. Falan wanted to brush it off, but he did not.
Falan cursed again. Serin was right. 
He scratched his chin, gesturing toward the soldiers sitting around a fire turning a spit of meat. “We need to keep our strength up,” he said, approaching the fire to get a chunk of the meat. When the soldiers asked why they were not in another part of the camp where they belonged, Falan muttered something unsubstantial before moving off with a hot chunk of the roast meat. Some of the soldiers protested, told them to go find their own cook fires. He tore the meat into two large chunks, handing one half to Serin and biting deeply into his own.
Neither of the two men had eaten since the previous day, and because of this, Falan could feel his own lack of energy.
If they looked awkward moving about the camp, the best thing they could do was to act as though they belonged. Perhaps they belonged to a different part of the camp and were simply exploring other parts they hadn’t seen yet. The best whores and other camp followers were never grouped in one area of a camp. Searching was required to find the best services. Not that Falan associated with disreputable company. He had been a lord after all. He still was a lord.
What a neieve thought, he told himself. Plenty of lords were horrible men, and many of the ladies as well.
They moved on, searching for an opportunity to break the two women out as they ate. Serin nodded toward a wagon being unloaded, then wiped his hands over his cloak. They helped unload the foodstuffs. When they were done, Falan moved to take charge of the wagon. 
“What d’you think you’re doin’?” the driver asked, looking up at Falan atop the driver seat. “I’ve got charge of this ‘ere wagon.” He was a short stout man missing his two front teeth. His breath smelled of wine.
“You are relieved, Master Driver,” Falan said. I hope this works, he thought. “I have orders from Captain Seswal to take this wagon to the nearest town for another supply run.” That was not right. Seswal was a cavalry officer. 
The fat man cocked his head, scratched his chin. “You aren’ part of the wagon crew,” he said. “I’ve never seen you afore, an’ Captain Seswal isn’ in charge of camp stock.”
“Fine,” Falan said, glancing around quickly to make sure no one was watching. He slammed his mailed fist into the man’s round face. He spit out a few more teeth before falling back, eyes rolling to the back into his head. They loaded the fat drunk into the back none to gently. He would surely feel the bruises when he woke. They tossed the ragged canvas that had covered the food stuffs over the unconscious form as one of the soldiers who had helped unload the wagon came out of the supply tent. “Where’s Wass?” he asked, confused.
Serin shrugged. “Went that way? Said something’ about getting; a drink.”
The soldier threw up his arms in frustration then strode back into the storage tent.
Back at the pavilion, Falan wondered how they were supposed to get the two women into the wagon without anyone seeing. 
Maybe if we hgave a bit of L=luck, he told himself. But the gods didn’t seem to see fit to give it to them recently. 

TWENTY-SIX—Oathbreakers 
Leisa didn’t want to be a mage anymore—she wanted to go home. She told herself that if she escaped, she would spend the rest of her life content as a handmaiden. Life was safe before. Now she was going to die because she wanted more she should have. Jasen too.
If he’s even still alive.
She’d stopped sobbing hours ago, even though short fits overtook her from time to time when she began thinking too much.
The guard snorted in his sleep as lady Casen struggled to free herself. It was no use. “You’ll never get free,” Leisa whispered. “They’re going to cart you off to the high lord and I’m going to swing.” 
The mage turned, glared. The woman had no power over her future now, but that look still cowed Leisa. “I’m sorry, my lady. It’s the truth.”
Sorela looked away, grunted against her restraints in frustration. The mage looked like she wanted to scream in anger. She soon stopped, then laid her head back. Had she accepted defeat?
“My lady—“
A tall man wearing a hooded cloak, crossbow raised, pushed through the tent flap. He loosed the bolt directly into the sleeping guard. 
Leisa jumped with an audible yelp. The guard did not stir.
The man in the cloak lifted his hood, revealing Falan Nogal. 
“Oath breaker” materialized in Leisa’s mind. Her heart skipped a beat. She didn’t care. “Falan!”
The tall man put a finger over his lips, then bent to one knee to remove the gag from Sorela’s mouth. “Are you alright?” he asked, eyes moving between Sorela and herself.
“Yes—“Sorela said, but Leisa cut her off.
“Falan, they’re going to hang me with the others!”
“Be quiet, silly child,” the lady mage commanded as she rose. Falan cut Leisa’s restraints. “Mages do not give up so easily.” 
Leisa rubbed her wrists. “I don’t...” she was going to say she didn’t want to become a mage. 
Now wasn’t the time. She smiled. She didn’t care if she looked like a fool. “Is Jasen still alive?”
The Serafe nodded. “He is, along with a few of the others.”
“How do you intend to get us out of this camp, Serafe?” Sorela asked stiffly.
“I have a wagon ready.” 
“Two prisoners cannot simply walk out of a tent and step into a wagon.”
Leisa’s stomach twisted into a knot. They weren’t free yet and she still might hang if the rescue failed. And how would they get the others to safety? “You could make it look like you’re moving us, perhaps?”
Sorela frowned. “That will not be good enough.”
Abruptly a horn blew. Falan’s eyes widened. Serin entered the tent. “The camp is under attack—might be a raid, I don’t know.”
The horn continued. “This is the opportunity we need,” Falan said. “We can slip out during the confusion! We just have to wait for the right moment.”
“When will be the right time?” Leisa asked. She didn’t want to be caught up in a raid. The ambush before was scary enough. But if she were killed at least it would be better to die trying to escape than to swing from a rope while she wet herself.
Falan moved to look out the tent flap. “Most of the soldiers will move from their posts to defend the camp. This looks like more than a raid. Be ready.”

TWENTY-SEVEN—Skirmish
Falan stepped out of the tent. A pitched skirmish was raging at the edge of the forest, Soles attacking on one side, Nelothans defending on the other.
Falan went back into the tent and began rummaging through supply chests.
Serin frowned. “What are you looking for?” 
“These,” Falan finally said, holding up two oiled leather cloaks. He turned to the two women. “Put these on.” 
As soon as Leisa and the mage put the cloaks on, he thrust his crossbow into the younger woman’s hands. “Pull up your cowls. Serin, give the lady mage your crossbow.”
“So we just walk out of the tent like we belong here?” Leisa asked, hunching in on herself as if she might be struck through the tent with a stray arrow. “Won’t it look strange?”
“The camp is mostly empty,” Serin said. “Chances are if anyone sees you, they will be too preoccupied to notice. Besides, they will not be expecting two female prisoners to be able to escape, much less be wielding crossbows when they do it.”
The girl swallowed. 
“Let’s go,” Falan said, stepping through the flap. He glanced about. They were not noticed. Only a few straggling soldiers made their way to the front as he jumped up onto the wagon’s driver seat. Serin helped Leisa and the lady mage into the back, then jumped into the seat beside Falan.
Serin glanced over his shoulder. “Wait. Falan, we could free the others. There will only be a few guards on them at most!”
Falan turned, eyed the mage. There seemed to be no indication she approved, though she said nothing. “Go back inside the tent, both of you. Serin and I will return in a moment.”
The mage hesitated, then moved to do as told. “Come, child,” she told Leisa as she stepped out of the wagon.
Serin made for the direction of the others. There were only three guards shifting nervously as they cast curious glances in the direction of the battle that was obscured by a dozen tents.
Falan pulled open his cloak and with a soft metal on metal hiss, his sword was out. The guard was unsuspecting when he slashed at the man’s head with the flat of his blade, knocking him unconscious. Lucky the man did not dawn his helm this morning.
Falan looted the key from the guard’s belt as Serin finished up with the other two guards. 
After the lock and chain were removed, Brassen pushed open the makeshift door, eyes wide with excitement. “I knew you would come, you sodding Nelothan mercenaries!The others filed out. Gorkis nodded to Falan and Serin. The stable boy looked near to retching. “Gold is a fine inspiration,” Brassen continued. “Now let’s go,” or they’ll be on us any second.”
“This way,” Falan said, trotting back. As soon as all the men were aboard—there was only Gorkis, Brassen, Jasen, and six of the men-at-arms—Falan entered the tent. “We are ready.”
They rode out of the camp, up the mountain road, away from the battle leading into Nalandor. 
They would have to circle around after the battle was finished. It wouldn’t take the Nelothans long to discover their prisoners were missing, assuming they were able to push the Soles back. King Dalthan’s armies were no easy adversary.
Falan drove the horses as fast as they could pull the wagon, knowing they could not stay on the road. The cart jounced violently on the rough cobbled roads. Finally he stopped, told the others they had to leave the wagon and go afoot. Without supplies or food, the lady mage’s quest was finished. Now they had to escape pursuit through frozen mountains.
Falan obscured their trail, making it look as though they were going north as Serin unhitched the two stocky work horses. At least they had those. They wouldn’t be much use, other than food. For that, there would be plenty.

TWENTY-EIGHT—Pressing On
Will he be able to wipe our path clean? Sorela wondered. Did lord Birtran not have trackers that could see through that?
She followed Brassen and Gorkis as they plowed through the crusted snow coming up to their thighs, Leisa tucking her hands underneath her arms. The girl had lost her traveling cloak after they were taken captive. “Come, child,” she said, taking Leisa’s arm to help her through the snow. 
The girl was moving slowly, obviously dejected. “Ride one of the horses.”
The two Serafes caught up after nearly an hour had passed—at least it had felt like an hour, trudging through the snow as cold chills gusted into Sorela’s cowl. 
“Our trail is clear,” Falan said. “They will think we are making our way north, so we should be out of their way.”
“What do you mean?” she asked him. “We are making our way north.” Serin stopped, eyed her incredulously, or what passed for incredulousness with these northerners. They were headed east at the moment. Did they think they would turn back and head for Nalandor? “We continue north, Serafe.”
Their company stopped. “My lady,” Falan said, bemused. “We have no shelter, and only two swords. How can we go on? Chances are, we freeze to death either way.”
She glanced toward the stable boy. He looked somewhat downcast as he patted one of the horses on the neck. “Let me take care of that, Serafe. You want your gold, do you not?”
The two Serafes moved off, speaking amongst themselves in heated whispers, though Sorela was uncertain what they were arguing about. Probably weather or not to abandon them here.
Finally they stepped forward. “We push on east until dark,” Falan said, much to Serin’s clear disappointment. “Then we head north in the morning.” 
It was not a suggestion. If they were going to continue with the help of the Serafes, they would have to do things their way. For now, Sorela thought.
One of the guardsmen groaned, nursing an ache. Evidentially they had been beaten during their time in captivity. 
“My lady,” Leisa said, “Why are we continuing on? You heard what Lord Birtran said. Lord Jalen is dead.”
“We do not know that,” Sorela snapped. Then in a softer tone so that the others could not hear she added, “I cannot return to lord and lady Warfink without at least having gone to the place where their son was last seen. I cannot tell them their son is dead unless I know for certain. If you wish to be a mage, child, you must be diligent.”
Leisa lowered her eyes. The girl’s fervor to study at the Hall did not seem so aredent now. Perhaps she was not worthy.
The girl was in shock. Yes. She had narrowly escaped hanging after all. Sorela decided to postpone making any decisions for now. Besides, she would only be unworthy if she chose to give up.
The time for that decision was coming near. Sorela could feel it....
The sun was below the mountains when Falan stopped the group to announce that they needed food or else they would freeze during the night. “Spread out,” he said. “Find anything you can.” 
The Serafes unslung their crossbows and headed into the forest with the other men, leaving her and Leisa with the stable boy.
“Find some wood,” she said, pointing below an evergreen covered with snow. Foraging for wood was no work for the noble born. Everyone had a part and Sorela was about to play one of hers.

TWENTY-NINE—Magecraft 
The warm Dow Serin shot felt good over Falan’s shoulders. They would eat the horses only if they absolutely had to. He was sure they would eat the meat raw that night. When they came upon camp—what they were calling a camp—Falan’s eyes widened in surprise when he saw the crackling fire at the base of a tall pine sheltering Leisa and her mistress from the snow on the ground.
He had almost forgotten the lady mage. 
Smiling to himself, he thought about filling his belly with hot meat. Gorkis managed a small handful of frozen berries. Brassen returned empty handed. Jasen seemed relieved they were not eating horse. 
All we need is a tent, he thought.
After everyone had eaten their fill—Sorela and Leisa ate more the Falan had ever seen women manage—he gave the two of them his and Serin’s bedrolls. The mage accepted gracefully. Brassen grumbling something about not being smart enough to steel some supplied before escaping. He still wore his fur-trimmed cloak, though. The man had less to complain about than he or Serin did.
The men-at-arms who hadn’t died or were executed were there with them. They too ate, and even all of them together—eleven in total—could not finish the meal. Good. They would have more for later.
“We are nearly there,” Lady Casen said, crossing her legs on Falan’s unrolled bedding. “I must find out what happened to Lord Warfink’s son. As soon as I—“She eyed everyone staring at her. 
So that was her quest? 
Falan had wondered, but did not suspect Lord Warfink’s son had gone missing. It made sense now. 
The lady mage continued. “I will attempt to find out what happened to him, and as soon as I do, we will make our way back to Castle Warfink in Nalandor, provided the boy is not within expedient reach. As much as I want to find him, we are unprepared now.”
“What about our gold?” Brassen growled.
The mage eyed the fur cloaked man with a look of distaste. Wether it was due to the fact she thought him a barbarian or his want to talk of coin, Falan didn’t know. “I have already given you partial payment,” she said. “You will receive the rest.”
“Those bloody Nelothans stole it!”
“That is not my concern, Master Brassen,” the mage replied coolly.
The mage’s journey was nearly finished. She would discover her query dead and then they would get the rest of their gold. 
And then Valamor...
Falan entertained the thought of possibly purchasing a plot of land once more. It was a long decline from lordship. He would survive. At least he had not lost his partial payment like Brassen. The scoundrel should be grateful he was still alive.
Without adequate shelter, much less a warm bed, Falan never slept. Under normal circumstances they would have all died of exposure—even with that fire and sleeping with the horses. But Falan had figured out the trick. When he had opened his eyes he found the lady mage drawing colorful symbols into thin air. Whatever she did, it kept them from freezing to death.
Falan had never seen magic before. He had heard of it often enough, being a Lord, but he had never seen it for himself... until last night. He was quite impressed to see a mage use her craft and wondered at the sort of evil one could divise with such unnatural powers.
It was time to get up and get going. They didn’t have far to go to reach the border—where the boy had gone missing.

THIRTY—Keep Fellwind
At Falan’s insistence, they stayed well clear of the road as they made for keep Fellwind on the other side of the mountain where the Withering spanned a few hundred yards before slowly merging into the Blackwood forest.
Sorela had kept everyone alive, though she was certain Falan had seen her weaving runes at least once more apart from the first night he had witnessed her magecraft. Some nights she had to discreetly light several fires, letting the others believe she had a strike and flint hidden away. Her barrier wasn’t visible or touchable—but she knew Falan at least, was aware of it. It could hold out some of the cold, as well as keep in some heat.
Very few had ever seen the powers of magecraft. Leisa had also caught her on one occasion. Serin probably knew what he was seeing as well, but neither of the Serafes had reacted very much.
Sorela looked down at her hands, cracked and bleeding from the chill wind. Never had she had endure such hardship—like a vagrant. The men foraged and hunted, usually bringing back only a few frozen berries or a rabbit. There were no more deer in these areas farther north. 
Perhaps they had all been hunted already.
The Serafes seemed reluctant to eat the horses. “We should only eat the animals as a last resort,” Falan had said.
The Hall endure. Sorela actually wanted to eat the poor animals.
Fellwind was a disheveled little town—most structures had been burned down. Keep Fellwind towered at the center, overlooking a stone wall with a portcullis. 
Leisa frowned, looked back at her. “Why would Lord Jalen come here?” 
“Every lord comes to see the Blackwood,” Falan said. “They need to know what the world is up against. One day these wars”—he gestured vaguely—“they won’t mean anything. Not when the Blackwood overtakes us all.”
Sorela nodded absently, peering at the long burnt line separating the Withering from pure land. She had seen the like before on several occasions, except now the Withering was growing well past the blackened trench. Fire was the only way to keep the accursed Withering from spreading. It slowly killed plant life, preparing the ground for Blackwood saplings that grew at an alarming rate. Evil creatures within the forest knew when a Blackwood tree was attacked. They always retaliated with devastating raids. For some reason new saplings did not sprout until the Withering had attained a certain distance from the main forest. Keeping the Withering hemmed in kept the monsters away. Mostly.
The portcullis was closed, locked tight. Townspeople could still be living here, Sorela thought. Why would they stay after what had happened? Lord Nightkar had obviously abandoned the keep. Foolish man. Once the Blackwood gained new ground it was almost impossible to fight back for the raids.
Perhaps Jalan is alive within the walls. It wasn’t a good hope, because that would be too much fortune. Would there at least be some food or supplies they could use if Jalen was not found perhaps? She peered past the iron grates into the village. 
No one in sight.
“Hello?” she called. “Is anyone there?” She turned to the others. Falan shrugged while Leisa blew into her cupped hands. 
There was no snow near the Blackwood. For some reason the accursed forest kept the area warm, though it was still cold enough to see white plumes as you breathed. Through the years the Hall had sent mages on numerous occasions to study the forest, to find out why it did not snow here even in the midst of a northern winter. So far, no answers had been found, not in over a hundred and fifty years. Sometimes it made her feel as though the Hall was helpless when it came to the Blackwood. The best any nation could do was to dig and fire those trenches. 
A plume of frosted air left her mouth as she turned back toward the others, then glanced at the portcullis.
“We must enter.”

THIRTY-ONE—Murderholes and Mist
Hungry and cold and still the bloody mage would not use her powers unless it meant saving them from certain death.
She could at least open the portcullis!
Instead we spend the better part of an hour searching for that sally port, she thought, blowing hot air into her hands. It was frustrating. What is the point of becoming a mage if you never use your powers? 
Leisa couldn’t wait to get inside, sit next to a crackling fire and eat food brought out by some nice old woman still living in one of the ramshackle houses. 
It was a fancy. The whole village seemed deserted. They walked through what must have been the green. The smell of ash carried on the wind. Leisa regarded the abandoned houses. She spotted a local woman watching her before she abruptly closed her window shutter. “My lady,” she said, taking the mage’s arm in her hand, pointing. “There are people still living here.”
“Yes... Lord Nightkar has abandoned them to weather out the winter—and perhaps this war—on their own. So close to the Blackwood, I fear they will probably not survive.” 
The cool statement from the mage sent shiver up Leisa’s back. She could have been talking about her laundry.
Gorkis grunted. “In a few more weeks the Withering will be over the walls. These people should leave this place and head south if they want to survive.”
“Falan,” The mage said, “You and the others search for supplies—anything we can use on our journey back.”
“And weapons,” Jasen said. “We need weapons.”
Falan nodded, turned toward the others. “Spread out. You know what to look for.”
“Do you really think we will need more weapons?” Liesa asked the stable boy. He looked at her. She could see the fear in his eyes as he nodded. She shook her head and smiled. “We’ll be okay.” 
To add emphasis, she looked to Sorela, then to the north men.
“Come, child,” Sorela commanded.
Leisa followed her past a second inner portcullis—the gate was smashed from its hinges—into the keep. The ante hall was covered with black soot. She nudged a chunk of charcoal, wondering of the fire had spread through the rest of the structure too.
The lady mage breathed in, then slowly exhaled, making her way to the second level. 
Leisa frowned at her surroundings. No fire damage. “How could Lord Jalen simply disappear? Surely some of the townsfolk could tell us what happened?”
“I’m afraid any survivors of the keep were probably taken captive by the Soles before they escaped,” Sorela said, “or perhaps by those winged creatures Lord Birtran spoke of.” The mage continued surveying her surroundings. “There’s no way to know what happened to young Lord Jalen, I fear. At least not at this time. If the Soles do not have him...” She left the rest unsaid. The common townsfolk, what was left of them, probably hadn’t seen anything. When the attack came, they probably hid, huddled under their beds.
Liesa shivered, and not from the cold. She imagined the lady mage bringing Lord and Lady Warfink news of their son’s death. In her mind the lord raged while Lady Warfink sobbed uncontrollably. Leisa hoped she would not be there.
A cold gust blew into her cloak as she turned toward a murder hole. She approached the elongated opening to get a look outside.
The Withering.... She shuttered. Enumerable little saplings with black bark were taking over new land past the trench. They reached out, like hands grasping desperately for something. She’d read about the Withering and the Blackwood, but she’d never seen it with her own eyes. She felt a knot forming in her stomach as she looked at it. 
It’s so dangerous. And no one is doing anything about it anymore.
Lord Nightkar was willing to lose territory to the Blackwood just to win this war with the Soles? Why doesn’t he sue for peace? she wondered.
Leisa was pulled from her thoughts when she saw movement on the bend where the road disappeared behind a tall forest of evergreens growing alongside the mountain.
Mist twirled about. It was thick, but not forbidding. Riders came out of it, a double row of armored men with spears and banners.
Her eyes widened and she stepped back. “My lady!” she yelped, pointing. 
At least fifty cavalrymen cantered toward the keep. At the head was an important-looking man and what looked like an honor guard.
The banners carried a white hawk’s head on top of crossed spears on black.
The lady mage glanced out the murderhole, then immediately whirled for the stairs, cloak held up above her ankles. “It’s Lord Birtran! Come, child!”

THIRTY-TWO—The Blackwood
Falan stuffed another fur into the saddle bag he had found beside the dead war horse. It had been stripped of its meat. He frowned when he saw the lady mage rushing out of the keep, Leisa at her heels. What was wrong?
“Gather the others!” The mage commanded.
By the time Falan turned the others were already striding out from where they had been searching for supplies.
Brassen snorted. “What is it?” 
Serin gripped his sword as Gorkis looked to the skies, spear in hand, as if expecting winged monsters to descend on them any moment. The guardsmen shifted uneasily, most of them wielding farming tools as weapons they had found in the village.
Falan looked to the mage for an answer. “Riders!” she said. “Near fifty of them. They carry the banner of house Birtran.”
Brassen croaked, uttering an oath. No one else said a word as they eyed each other. 
Fifty? Falan thought. Not good odds.
They could not hold the keep. That left them only one option. He mounted one of the stocky work horses they had brought into the keep. It had a saddle for proper riding now. Falan had lifted it from the dead stallion earlier. 
“We make for the Blackwood!” 
Leisa’s eyes widened. Sorela frowned up at him suspiciously. She was probably wondering if he would abandon them now that they were in real danger.
“Are you seriously suggesting—“ Serin began, but Falan cut him off.
“Yes! If we are caught, we get the rope—all of us. We have no choice but to make for the Blackwood.”
Gorkis cocked his head. “We might as well let the Nelothans have us. It is death to enter the—“
“We would still stand a chance,” Falan said, fervently. “It is our only chance.”
It was the forest or the noose.
“Very well, Serafe” the mage said. “As you say. We make for the Blackwood.”
“Wait,” Jasen said, stunned. “We’re—“
“No time to ask questions, stable boy,” Serin barked. “Move!”
Brassen seemed about to balk. 
Gorkis nodded agreement. 
Leisa swallowed hard and the mage made for the west wall toward the other sally gate. “This way.”
There was no place to hide. The grounds to the west of the village were as barren as any plowed field, apart from newly sprouted Blackwood saplings in the withering.
Falan glanced over his shoulder, several of Birtran’s cavalrymen jumping their horses over the blackened trench. “They have spotted us!” he bellowed. “Run!”
He lingered behind, making himself the target of their arrows instead of the others. Abruptly his animal stopped, whinnied and reared. Falan jumped to escape being crushed under his mount’s weight. He scrambled to his feet, making for the forest. He leapt over a guardsman with an arrow in his back.
Gorkis faced him, hefted his spear. “Down, Serafe!”
Falan jumped, turning in the air to land on his back to face whatever enemy was upon him, but when he caught sight of his attacker the cavalryman rolled off his horse, dead with Gorkis’ spear in his chest.
The golden-haired warrior sprinted past Falan, removed his spear from the dead soldier’s middle. The two men sprinted for cover of the forest, barely making it into the Blackwood as shafts skidded into dirt or thunked into trees.
Lord Birtran’s men did not pursue them farther. They would have been mad to, just like they were.
Panting, Falan blinked in the new darkness as he and Gorkis went deeper to catch the others. Glancing at his hand, he could barely make out his fingers. Thankfully small streamers of light dotted the forest floor, or else he and Gorkis would have stumbled their way to the others.
This place is truly cursed to let in so little light.
“This place...it feels evil,” Gorkis said, warily eyeing the dark canopy overhead, spear ready.
Falan peered deeper into the forest where the trees seemed to grow more thickly, ending in pitch blackness. 
Everyone made it into the forest, save one of the men-are-arms. “Is everyone okay?”
Murmured responses came as the group glanced about warily. “I don’t like this,” Leisa said. 
Could her eyes have gotten any larger? Falan knew how she felt, knowing the stories, of the crusades that had entered and never returned. Everyone knew the stories. He touched Leisa’s shoulder. “Do not worry. These are only the outskirts of the forest. We are safe here as long as we keep quiet and do not travel any further into the wood.” He did not believe it himself. 
Serin eyed him dubiously and Jasen looked as though he were about to bolt, preferring one of Lord Birtran’s gibbets.
“Keep quiet,” Lady Casen said. “We wait here until Lord Birtran and his men leave.”
Leisa sidled closer to her teacher. “And then?”
“And then we make our way back to Nalandor. To Castle—“
An echoing voice cut through the trees. “Lady Mage!”
“The damn man is going to get us killed,” Brassen growled.
Leisa visibly shivered. “It’s Lord Birtran...”
“After you escaped, my force was routed and destroyed by those bloody Soles,” Birtran went on bitterly. “I cannot return to Lord Nightkar like this...not without a consolation prize.” He laughed.
Was the man drunk?
“I know you can hear me!”
Leisa jumped. The mage put a comforting arm around the girl.
“My men and I will stay here as long as need be. I will not return without you as my prisoner. If you come out now, I will spare your friends—you have my word.” He hardly sounded sincere. “I will make camp, and you will come to me, Lady Casen, or you will die in there.” He laughed again, but this time it was more of a drunken cackle. “Do not believe that you can escape. My men will be patrolling the borders of the forest. Make a choice! Quickly.”
They looked at one another.
“It’s a trap,” Serin said. “Once he has you, he’ll kill us all.”
“Then what do we do?” Jasen asked.
“We wait,” Falan said, glancing into the darkness. “We wait and hope nothing within this cursed place notices we’re here.”

THIRTY-THREE—Hansa
Night came and dark within the forest became pitch black. Falan could make out the camp fires of Lord Birtran and his men. He glanced toward the others. Were they asleep or did they have their eyes closed while shivering in fear? He couldn’t say with such low visibility. If they were attacked by creates of the Blackwood, Birtran and his men would be as well. What would they do if he did not tire of waiting? 
Did the mage wonder about Falan’s broken oath? She would probably ask him...soon. The Blackwood was hardly the place, but she would want to know who she was traveling with. She hasn’t asked yet, he thought. Falan would tell her the truth of she did. There was no dishonor in what he did, even if that was how others saw it. Still, he did not like talking about it.
Changing the subject of his thoughts, he listened closely for any sounds outside of Fellwind. If they gave up to Lord Birtran, High Lord Nightkar would surely have Serin and him beheaded for treason.
There was a soft whining croak not ten paces from where he sat. It could have been an animal, though none Falan had ever heard. Hand on his sword hilt, he searched the darkness. 
Silence.
More silence...
What sorts of animals live in this place? he wondered, getting up. He moved forward a few paces.
There was a faint rustling of leaves behind him. He pulled his sword partially out of its sheeth as quietly as he could and was about to turn when a sharp object was pressed against his neck. Not a branch or a twig. Something metal.
A weapon. 
He tilted his eyes left and out of the corner of his vision, saw a small person in dark clothes holding a spear to his neck. The assailant was perhaps the size of Leisa. 
“I mean you no harm,” he said quietly, carefully moving his hand away from his sword hilt, “so long as you mean me none.”
The assailant sniffed. “Men do not come into the Blackwood.”
More pressure on the spear. A woman? A Hansa woman? 
He drew a slow breath. “How is it that a Hansa lives in this place? I thought your kind was wiped out by the Dar’nithie.” 
Was the Hansa smiling? 
“We are more resilient than you think, humaaan.” Her voice was definitely feminine, but it held a deep growling edge, whether because she was about to thrust that spear into his neck or if Hansa just sounded that way, Falan did not know.
Again he told the woman he meant her no harm. What he got in response was a dubious grunt as he felt her grip tighten on the spear. “We are only here because those men with the camp fires are trying to kill us. We had no choice but to come here.” Slowly he turned toward the Hansa woman, the sharp edge of her spear cutting into his skin. The pressure lessoned slightly. 
Perhaps she does not want to kill me, he thought. “My name is Falan Nogal. Do you live here, in the Blackwood?”
The Hansa’s large eyes narrowed suspiciously. “Why do you care, humaaan?”
“I am only curious,” he said. “I thought your people were wiped out, or else had left these lands. What are you doing in the forest?”
The Hansa woman strafed aside, eyes glancing to her right as a soft metal on metal his issued from Serin’s scabbard. “Remove your spear point, Hansa, or you will surely die tonight!”
She smiled a flash of sharp white teeth. “Not before I kill your friend.
“She means us no harm, Serin. Falan had his arms spread, not entirely sure if she would thrust her spear into his neck. She simply wanted to know why we are here, and I told her.”
She eyed Serin, then Gorkis and the guardsmen fanning out. Her eyes fell on Leisa and the lady mage. If Falan had told the truth, it rang more true when the Hansa saw two women sleeping against the tree, Leisa under the lady mage’s arm. They could have been mother and daughter. There was no way she would know the older woman was a mage.
Is she even sleeping? he wondered about lady Casen. 
Finally she pulled the spear off Falan’s neck, still poised to kill him at a moment’s notice.
Serin did not put up his sword. He was always slow to trust, but sometimes trust was needed to prevent an escalation of events. After a moment the man finally put his steel away.
Leisa shrieked and the Hansa’s already large eyes flashed larger, visibly tensing—ready to strike.
Brassen snorted awake and growled loudly.  The lady mage mage bolted to her feet without so much as being disturbed out of sleep first as Leisa yelped awake. The mage had her hands raised, obviously ready to attack should the need arise.
Leisa scurried up against the tree. “What is that?”
Gorkis and the guardsmen continued fanning out. 
Brassen hefted a small axe. “Don’t worry yourself, Serafe! I’ll kill it!” He swayed back and forth, ready to pounce. 
“Stop!” Falan ordered. “Lower your weapons.”
It was likely the Hansa would skewer Brassen like a wild boar should the fool charge her. 
They hesitated for a moment, then finally obeyed. Brassen scowled contemptuously.
Lady Casen’s eyes lingered on the Hansa woman. She lowered her hands. “Hansa,” she said, raising an eyebrow. “Interesting. We mean you no harm. We are sheltering here for a time from men who pursue us.”
“Your people are too loud, humaaan,” the Hansa growled quietly. Her eyes traveled up to the canopy above. “They can hear.” She made a motion with the flat of her hand over her mouth. “You will not survive here long, not if you stay here.”
No one said anything. The Hansa woman eyed them in turn, a cautious but curious expression on her face. Finally she lowered her spear completely. “Come with me.” She turned, making her way into blackness.
Falan looked to the lady mage. She looked right back, no hint of inference in her gaze—though it was hard to tell in this blackness.
The Hansa half turned, head tilted sideways. “I said come!” she hissed quietly. “You want help, do you not?”
“We’re—we’re going to follow that creature?” Jasen asked. He was standing next to Leisa. He teached down and helped her up.

THIRTY-FOUR—A Brief Respite
What to do? They could wait where they were and hope no fell creatures would happen upon them, or they could follow the Hansa woman deeper into the Blackwood. 
How have they survived here? Sorela wondered. She thought they had all been wiped out by the Dar’nithie. No one ever found out why the islanders hated the Hansa so much. Perhaps when Lord Nightkar finally invaded their lands that mystery might come to light.
“We aren’t going deeper, are we?” Jasen asked, a look of silent panic on his face.
The Hansa woman was now completely enveloped by darkness.
If Sorela was going to follow the woman, it had to be now. “Follow,” she whispered. An abrupt decision. She did not like that kind. She had been forced to do that too often lately.
The stable boy swallowed. Wherever the Hansa wanted to take them it must have been safe enough to stay alive all this time. There was no other explanation as to how the non-human was able to survive there this long.
She felt Leisa’s body heat, bringing the young girl to the forefront of her mind. She had been through a recent ordeal with the belief that her death was imminant. Poor girl. Initiates to the Hall did not have to endure such fear and hardship to face the Tenecine Council. “A Mage has to be strong, child,” she whispered soothingly. “Have courage.”
Sorela’s eyes adjusted to the dark poorly as they followed the Hansa woman for some time. She could only make out dark forms five or more paces wide, towering into blackness. 
She was tempted to weave a rune to alight the area after stumbling across massive root systems spread throughout, but thought better of it, knowing not to become a beacon in this foul place. 
Finally the Hansa woman stopped, regarded them. Her eyes seemed to glow with a green flash. “Here,” she said faintly, pushing into a leafy mound and crawling into it.
Sorela cocked her head in surprise. She was disappointed. Finally she pulled up her hood and crawled in after the woman. She noted the large course leaves as she crawled through what felt like a steep tunnel angled downward. She was surprised when she made out light ahead, finally breaking through the leafy barrier, dropping onto a small mound, leaves raining atop her. Eyes wide, she surveyed her surroundings. She was in a small room with painted figures adorning the walls.
Where had the Hansa gone?
There are passages in all directions!
Leisa bounced on the mound beside her, leaves showering atop them. The younger woman gasped. “What is this place?”
The Hansa woman entered the room. With the light from the glow rocks, Sorela could make out her leather apparel. It was light, leaving bits and pieces of her skin bare, but her boots were furred and prominent compared to the rest of her trappings. “Come,” she said, voice brusk, then turned and made her way down one of the small corridors.
They followed as the others tumbled onto the pile of leaves behind them and entered a room, another Hansa, a male, sat in a wooden high-backed chair, seemingly trying to compose himself for unexpected visitors. The female Hansa who had brought them here moved up beside the chair. She gestured. “My father and leader of this tribe.”
Sorela bowed. “I am Lady Sorela Casen of House Morgrath. We are fortunate your daughter was gracious enough to bring us here in our time of need.”
The Hansa male turned to his daughter and they began conversing in Hanish. Were they arguing? Sorela could not be certain. She did not know very much about their people.
Finally the male Hansa turned to her. “I am Halgn, chieftain of this hold.” 
There were more members of the tribe about now, nervously shifting their eyes toward the spears propped up against the walls. “This is my daughter, Naikal.” His already large eyes widened further when the rest of the company entered the room, the other members of the tribe visibly shifting to be in easy reach of their weapons.
Naikal barked something in Hanish, then turned to her father, her thick black braids swinging, the beads therein clacking together. She said a few more words. He responded, nervousness in his tone, but Sorela could not be sure, but his body language seemed to speak for itself. 
Halgn tried to hide his alarm, doing it poorly as he eyed their weapons.
“Thank you for your hospitality, Halgn,” Falan said. He glanced around the room. 
The startled-eyed Hansa continued to skirt the walls, muttering quietly amongst themselves in their native tongue. “How long will you stay, humaaans?” Naikal asked forcefully.
“As soon as it is safe,” Sorela answered, trying to sound humble. They were imposing. “Some men wish us harm. They have made their camp directly outside of the forest—“
“Yes, yes, humaaan,” Naikal said. Abruptly she looked up at the others, snapped her fingers and said something in Hanish. Immediately two of the other females scurried out of the room. “Sit,” she commanded, her eyes growing intense. “Sit!”
Warily, Sorela backed away from the chieftain to sit with the others around an open fire. The roof seemed to taper off until a tiny opening revealed itself at the top. Some of the Hansa sat, crossing their legs over furs. The two Hansa woman that had scurried out moments before entered with skewers of hot meat and something else. They served the chieftain first, then passed skewers to Sorela and the rest of the company. Afterward they served the rest of their own people, who doubled in number as more of what Sorela believed to be their returning hunters.
“How is it you come to speak the common tongue?” Sorela asked. She pulled a chunk of sizzling meat off her skewer. It was tough and accompanied by some kind of roasted tuber. 
Sorela knew the Hansa to be an aloof people, preferring to stay out of human affairs. They had rarely ventured out of their own territory. That was before the Dar’nithie destroyed them, or so she had thought. They were still aloof—even more so now, it seemed. Discovering a tribe of Hansa living in the Blackwood was nothing less than astonishing. 
The Hall will be thrilled to make a study of how they have managed to survive here, Sorela thought. She only wished she had some writing material to jot down notes.
“Every chieftain learns the common tongue, humaaan,” Halgn said chewing. “It has not been long since the invaders from the sea pushed us into the Dark. There are not many of us left. I taught my daughter this language. It is useful, I think.”
The Dark… That must be the Blackwood.
That invasion had been over twenty years ago. Sorela was barely ten and three years old at the time. She had been admitted to the Hall shortly after the invaders were pushed back to their islands some years later. It made sense that the Hansa remembered those events not long passed. “You mean there are other Hansa tribes in the Blackwood?” Sorela asked. The thrill of this newfound knowledge was making her feel like a fledgling mage again.
Unfortunately Halgn seemed reluctant to speak of the Hansa, so she did not press the issue, much to her regret. 
After more introductions between themselves and the rest of the clan, Naikal told them to go to sleep, thrusting a palette of furs at Sorela. Mages rarely did as they were told when barked at. But she obeyed anyway.
The Hansa went into another section of the hold to sleep. Naikal kept watch over them while they slept. Sorela did not blame them for being wary.
But what will we do next? Would Lord Birtran wait overnight? Would he assumed they were dead by morning?
And what of young Jalen?
Sorela did not sleep well.

THIRTY-FIVE—Stories of the Deep
Leisa slept better than she had in days, though she still missed her bed in castle Warfink. That morning—at least she thought it was morning, there was no way to tell—they ate dried meat and some kind of flaky bread around the pit fire in the center of the main room.
Naikal put an iron pot of dark liquid over the fire. The pot didn’t look like something made by the Hansa, more like a piece they might have scavenged from a human village. After the liquid was heated, she poured it into small deep-set clay bowls, handing one to each of them. The tea was bitter with a slight hint of sweet. Fortunately it wasn’t strong enough to make Leisa wince.
The Hansa gibbered in their own language, occasionally eyeing them as they spoke. Are they talking about us? Leisa wondered. 
Naikal spoke with her father while Halgn shook his head. 
Were Naikal and her father the only two who could speak common? The other Hansa never uttered a word outside of... Sorela called it Hanish?
Sorela sipped her tea, turned to Falan. In a low, casual tone, she said, “I want to know why they call you oath breaker, Lord Falan.”
Falan tried to hide his surprise, but Leisa saw his eyes narrow slightly. Serin leaned in, watched them. Fortunately Leisa was sitting directly beside Lady Casen and could hear everything.
Annoyingly loud, Brassen argued with one of the Hansa women because she evidentially refused to give him more to eat. He grunted sullenly, then crossed his arms. Leisa heard him mutter something about “damned savages” to Gorkis and the other man, broad as a tree stump on the shoulders, nodded.
Falan leaned in closer to the lady mage. “It was when Lord Nightkar ordered a second season of tax collecting to help fund the hiring of a larger army for the sea crossing to the Dar’nithie islands.”
Leisa imagined Falan in battle against the non-humans. She didn’t know what they looked like, so she imagined them like the Hansa, except with more clothes, standing and fighting on a rocky beach, icebergs floating around them while soldiers poured off ships into boats, reinforcing the battle. It probably didn’t look anything close to what she was imagining in her mind.
Falan continued. “Most the common folk would go hungry during the winter after a second collection.”
Sorela casually sipped her tea. “Go on.”
“Lord Nightkar ordered punishments to anyone unwilling to pay the tax, and my liege lord, Lord Malkar, was especially hard—even killing people. His soldiers were all too happy to squeeze whatever coppers they could from every village they passed, leaving behind burning farms and cottages, death and ravafed women.” He shrugged. “Serin and I disobeyed. So, knowing we would be sentenced to death for treason, we left Nelothar and started for Valamor.”
“And you had no gold?” Leisa asked.
He nodded. “I am not an honorable man,” he said. “I just could not force honest folk to go hungry during winter.”
Sorela nodded slowly. “At least you are not a thief and a murderer like lords Malkar and Nightkar,” she said, then added, “I trust you, Lord Falan. And you may have more honor than you think.”
Falan grunted.
Finally Naikal stopped arguing with her father. She turned to Sorela, eying the mage pointedly. “Some... humaaans were taken into the Deep by...” she grunted uncertainly. “Saval?” 
The lady mage’s attention was as certain as an arrowhead. Sorela shook her head. “I don’t know this word.” 
Naikal scowled. She grunted, made a flapping motion with her arms. “Saval! The evil beasts!”
The mage’s eyes widened, but Laisa still didn’t know what she meant, but in answer, her mistress said, “I know what you speak of. Go on with your story, Naikal.”
Leisa frowned. Is she talking about those flying monsters? What did Lord Bertran call them?
“The Saval took many humaaans into the Deep,” Naikal said, pointing behind herself with a four-fingered hand. “You are looking for them?” Sorela seemed about to speak when Naikal went on. “I would take you to their lair, but my father has forbidden it!” She eyed Halgn with what Leisa thought an annoyed twitch of her mouth.
If the Hansa called the Blackwood the Dark, what was the Deep? Were they different? 
Sorela leaned forward, intent. “Would you know if they took a young man called Jalen Warfink?” 
Naikal shook her head emphatically. “I do not know,” she said with a strange gesture of her hands, probably meant to reinforce her words. “If your friends are missing, the Saval likely have them. I know no more, humaaan.” As if to cut the conversation away, she made slashing motion with her hand.
Leisa tugged Sorela’s sleeve. “Do you think Lord Jalen was taken by those creatures Lord Birtran told us about?” 
“Perhaps,” Sorela said, staring at the crackling fire with a pensive frown.
The lady mage always said to be diligent. They were already inside the Blackwood, but to go after Lord Jalen into what Naikal was calling the Deep... 
Leisa shuttered, heart beating faster. But not in excitement. She caught Jasen looking at her, but he seemed pale.
We’re going into the bloody blackwood!

THIRTY-SIX—Skulkers
Sorela’s company was now less than a third the size it had been when they set out. She was beginning to have doubts about going into a place the Hansa called the Deep.
Lord Jalen may not even be in the Blackwood, she thought. But I muist be diligent.
It was her duty to serve to the best of her abilities, and if she were to find the boy, more war and loss of life could be avoided. As a mage of the Hall, she had to continue on.
Quietly, Leisa had taken her aside, face acusing Sorela of madness, though she protested meekly. Sorela could not turn back, and told the girl as much. Brassen was the only man to object openly, grumbling almost every step of the way. The only reason he did not leave was because he would have been alone in the forest.
“But the plan was to head back when Lord Birtran and his men left,” Jasen said. When no one said anything he turned to Leisa. “Wasn’t it?”
Leisa drew a deep breath, shook her head solemnly. 
Naikal had given Sorela a map that would supposedly lead them into the Deep and to the Saval lair. She unfolded the smooth leather scroll, painted in varying colors of white, black, blue and red. It looked more like a piece of art than a map.
Using that gesture she had when they first met, Naikal told them to stay quiet. “If they cannot here you, they will not find you,” she had said, and with a nod and a shove of leather bags filled with food, water and furs, she had sent them on.
Ever since being captured by Lord Birtran and narrowly escaping his camp, Leisa seemed somewhat—for lack of a better word—craven. Sorela had been surprised the girl did not object to carrying on more strongly. She did not want to push on to Fellwind, and now they were in a part of the Blackwood called the Deep...
Leisa was clearly trying not to betray her emotions, but Sorela could plainly see the girl was terrified. Was she too afraid to speak? 
Sorela understood. She too was afraid, but fear would not stop her. Perhaps the girl simply was not worthy of the Hall.
This quest is not over yet, she told herself, reserving judgment for later.
They pressed on.
Sorela could not see how they could possibly be as quiet as the Hansa. Small creatures skittered atop the hills surrounding them. They yelped and cried, growling before scurrying for cover. She had not caught a single glimpse of them yet, but they were there. Watching.
Was their company passing through their territory, or were the creatures following them? Something skittered atop them now, inside the canopy of the Blackwoods. Had a man been dropped from above the forest, she doubted he would fall to the ground for the tangle above was thick enough to block out all light.
It would not be difficult for someone or something to stalk them here. Probably only scavengers, waiting for some larger creature to kill and take its fill. Then they could descend and feast on whatever remained. The thought sent a shiver down her back.
A wisp of mist curled up her calves. She glanced about, making sure no one saw her. This place was not cold—at least not now. A physical reaction of fear was unavoidable. It did not help that the Blackwood had an aura about it—an evil one. 
This place was not natural.
They made camp at the base of on of the blackwoods with roots protruding from the moist ground as tall as a man’s shoulders. It would give ample cover from anything passing by.
Without starting a fire, they passed about food and furs taken from their stock of supplies. Sorela studied her map, chewing vigorously on a tough piece of meat that the Hansa had dried.
The others quietly spoke to one another as Falan moved beside her. “Something is following us.” He said the words quietly so the others would not hear. “I pack.”
Sorela lowered the map. “I suspected as much.” If she had knew those creatures were following, then surely a Serafe would know long before her. “Perhaps they are only scavengers waiting for a carcus.”
Falan shook his head. “They are more than that—I have seen them. They skulk about, coalescing in number and wear war gear.” He glanced at the map, then continued. “They are feeling--thinking creatures, lady mage, and they are following us.”
Sorela felt another chill, despite the small beads of sweat glistening on her forehead. She did not know how long it had been since she was this uncomfortable. She looked the man in the eys. “How many?”
Falan shrugged. “Five, maybe ten. I am only concerned their numbers might turn into thirty or forty. They seem to be preparing for a raid. We should keep a watch at all times.”
Sorela agreed wholeheartedly, though kept a cool tone when she said, “I agree. See to it.”
Falan nodded, but did not turn from her.
“What is it?” She could see the concern on his face.
“Should we not leave this place?”
She glanced to the others. They weren’t paying attention. Laisa was unfurling her fur while Brassen looked up into the trees. The men-at-arms were whispering amongst each other, and Gorkis was gnawing on some meat like the barbarian he was while Jallen and Serin were about something else concerning the stable boy’s weapon—or what was passing for a weapon.
Sorela looked Falan in the eyes. “No.”

THIRTY-SEVEN—Gnarled Blackwoods
They had slept for only a few hours. The men took turns standing watch for a possible attack. An attack! 
Leisa shuttered. Why would anyone want to attack them in this place? Gold was not exactly something you needed in these parts.
She felt tired. 
Leisa missed her duties as a handmaiden. At least she hadn’t had to freeze or sweat herself half to death. And there wasn’t a threat of constant danger. When she’d first set out with the lady mage on this quest she thought it would be a thrilling adventure, despite the fact the woman had told her it would be dangerous. 
Leisa didn’t want adventure anymore.
This is worse than my nightmares, she thought, stepping into a warm, muddy sinkhole. It sucked at her calf as she pulled her foot out. Frowning, she shook the mud from her knee-high boot of supple leather. The terrain had changed?
Had Sorela noticed, still studying that painted leather?
The Blackwoods were different too. Instead of climbing straight up, they were gnarled, twisted and grew in a slithering fashion toward the dark canopy overheard, which seemed higher than it had before. 
And the ground... it was no longer damp hard-packed dirt covered with death leaves. A thick leathery grass grew wherever there was abundant water. The forest, rolling hills with swampy waters, grasses, and undergrowth wherever there was a hollow—and there were a lot of hollows—slowly ambled down, as if toward a valley. Except they never seemed to reach that valley.
Leisa wiped at her forehead. This place almost felt like the steam chamber in Castle Warfink. Leisa was not allowed to use the chamber herself, but she did bring the lady mage hot rocks to poor water onto.
Her eye caught something moving above. Something was following them. She already knew that, but this time she’d seen one of those... things, small and impish. Not human. What did the wretches want?
Serin fell into step beside her. “If they were going to do something, I think they would have already.”
Leisa realized she was gripping the hilt of her sword. She couldn’t weild the heavier weapons, and had one made especially for herself. Well... Lady Casen had. Leisa could not commission to have custom swords forged even if she wanted to. Swords cost a lot of money. She continued fingering the hilt, her knkuckles white.
The light from their torches was enough to see by for walking, but it seemd unsufficient to know wheather something would attack them from a distance.
Serin’s comforting words were not very comforting. In fact they did the opposite, making Leisa feel a tenuous safety at best. If the Serafe was trying to keep her from being afraid, she probably had more to be afraid about now. 
Speed and agility are your advantages with a blade, Captain Caldron had told her. 
After they were safe, Leisa intended to tell the lady mage that she didn’t want to go to the Hall after all. I’ve been wasting her time, she told herself angrily, knowing she would feel a pang of guilt from the other woman’s disappointment. She wanted to think about something else. “Do you think Lord Jalen is alive?”
The tall man hesitated. “I don’t know. We will find out.” He offered a comforting smile that made her feel a little less on edge as they trudged on. Strange. His words didn’t do that.
It was strange how the Deep wasn’t as dark as the rest of the Blackwood. It was still dark, but she could see well enough to make out the gnarled trees. Everything seemed to give off a hint of light, though so miniscule that you couldn’t tell if you tried to find light emanating from any one source. It was an ambient light source that seemed to glow as if by some bioluminescence that allowed her to see better than before, but still not that well. If those creatures above decided to attack them in numbers, they would have the advantage of surprise and probably visibility.
Mist swirled about the glassy water-filled hollows as strange insects and animals chirped or rustled about in the grass. Some frolicked at the water’s edge, but quickly retreated whenever the group came near. Brassen complained, mutterings getting louder as time went on. After enough moaning over sore feet and lack of sleep from some of the guardsmen, they stopped again. 
Leisa sat down on her fur she’s spread out in a spot that wasn’t too wet. She wondered if an army could travel into the Blackwood, or the Deep, unseen if they were able to keep quite. 
We have to be silent like Naikal said, she thought.
An army couldn’t stay quiet. Men with weapons covered in metal plate were not a combination for quiet. But how could the Blackwood have taken entire crusades sent against it? So far, they had not come across anything all that dangerous apart from those creatures evidentially stocking them.
But maybe they were simply curious? Falan and Serin stood guard together. Were they worried about an attack while they slept? Leisa’s thoughts and worries drifted away as she slipped into unconsciousness.

THIRTY-EIGHT—Standfast!
Leisa opened her eyes when someone shook her awake. 
“Get up,” Sorela hissed. Her tone was stern, though also edged with fear?
Leisa got to her feet, realized everyone had their weapons beared. “What is it?” 
Heads swiveled about. Falan and Serin kept looking up into the darkness. The men-at-arms shifted uneasily. The company was positioned in a circle, lady casen and herself in the center with Gorkis behind the lady mag and facing away. 
Was it those creatures? She eyed the thick tangle of black branches overhead. She couldn’t see anything.
Jasen grabbed her upper arm.
“Owe!”
“Sorry.”
“Hush,” Sorela said. “They’re close,” she whispered in Leisa’s ear. Then, gravely she added. “Be on your guard.”
Why was it so quiet? Before, Leisa could at least hear scurrying and chirping of small animals, but now... nothing. 
She shivered and drew her slender sword from its scabbard.
“Where are they?” Brassen growled, tightening his grip on the haft of his axe. “I’ll gut ‘em!”
“Keep your voice down,” Serin hissed.
Abruptly a screech came from overhead, followed by a hundred more. “Get ready!” Serin bellowed. “They’re coming!”
Was that a battle cry? Lisa’s heart started hammering inside her chest. 
One of the men-at-arms shrieked. “They’re attacking!”
Liesa whirled, but she couldn’t see anything between them. “Where are they?”
“Look out!”
“There!”
“Hold firm!” Seran commanded.
Sorela uttered some words, but to Leisa they were unintelligible.
What happened next couldn’t be obscured from Leisa’s view, as dozens of those sickly creatures descended on them with axes and curved swords.
About half the height of a man, with big yellow eyes, claws and tails—they resembled something otherworldy.
A sudden gust of cool wind enveloped them, but Leisa was too distracted to care. Some of the small creatures, with their swords and knives and axes charged into the group, several of which convulsed and fell backward, seemingly from nothing at all! Liesa gaped.
Everyone wielded their weapons, cleaving those little creatures limb by limb as they rushed the circle. The little monsters in their leather battle garb rolled into heaps at the edges of the circle, croaking and screaming as they got slaughtered, their blood squirting in gushes.
Leisa yelped as one of the creatures maneuvered between the men-at-arms to her left. She must have closed her eyes when she slashed downward wildly, because she felt—not saw—her blade come into contact with something hard, yet soft.
Opening her eyes, her sword shaking uncontrollably in her hand, she glanced down at the grassy ground. She had split the creatures shoulder open half way down its body.
A noise came out of her that she was unsure of. Blood pounded inside her ears, a rush of fear crashing through her and gnashing at her insides.
“Watch out!” Sorela called.
“They’ve breached our line?” Jalen screamed.
Brassen turned and barked, “WHAT?”
But it wasn’t true. 
“What are you doing?” he barked at the stable boy.
“I don’t—I thought—“
Brassen ignored hm, whirling around and cleaving another creature from head to toe, it’s guts spilling out like a gourd split during autumn festival.
The little monsters learned their lesson on their initial attack and were beginning to descend en mass all around them as scores crashed against the line.
Falan and Serin slaughtered dozens of snarling creatures, long swords whirling deftly in the hands of the two Serafes.
Brassen cursed, turning to reinforce some of the men-at-arms having trouble holding their side of the circle. 
Leisa had no time to blush at the man’s obscenities as a creature leapt over the the line. Brassen cleaved the air as the creature lunged at Leisa. She raised her weapon like an idiot and crashed to the ground as the creature landed into her.
Everything whirled as a seering pain gnawed at her ribs.
Had she been killed.
“Liesa!” she heard Jassen call. “Liesa, are you all right.”
She couldn’t bread. She tried to speak. What was happening.
Suddenly the weight came off of her and she sucked in hair. The group was a whirwind of cries and screams as the creatures snarled and attacked.
Liesa sat up, felt her ribs where the pain was, but it had only been because of her sword guard being smashed against her when that creatures impaled itself on her sword before crashing into her.
She got to her feet, but her legs wobbled. She looked at her blade buried in the thing’s chest, her hand—covered in warm, slick blood. She pulled her thin sword free of the thing’s flesh, internal bones scraping against steel. More blood dripped across the hilt onto her hand. She wanted to wretch, but forced herself to take no more notice.
Scores of the snarling monsters surrounded them. “There are too many!” Falan shouted.
Brassen bellowed, growling like a wild animal after two men-at-arms went down, wretches piling atop them, stabbing and slicing. Together, with the help of the other two men-at-arms on either side of him, the fur-cloaked man attacked the monsters piling through the line.
Leisa’s heart pounded and her cheeks felt tight and hot. We’re going to die! 
Sucking in gulps of air didn’t help.
Abruptly she winced, squeezing her eyes shut against a bright flash and a thunderous explosion wracked her ears, forcing her to her knees. 
Something acrid burned.
Leisa opened her eyes. Scores of those monsters sizzled as small plumes of smoke rose from their twitching bodies.
“What was—“
Is that…
She glanced toward Sorela as the woman lowered her arms. A strange blue symbol suspended in the air beside her began to fade. 
Astonishing! she thought, inhaling deeply as she scabbled for her sword. It was laying in the grass right there, but like an idiot, she couldn’t seem to take it up in her fingers. Liesa’s eyes must have been the size of saucers as she glanced about. The remaining wretches were retreating into the trees while a few, still dazed, were finished off. 
Was it over? Would they come back? 
Panting, Leisa lowered herself to her stomach, turned onto her back. Fear began to subside. Opening her eyes, she saw brassen’s jaw hanging slack. 
The yellow-haired warrior regarded the mage with what Leisa thought reverence. The Serafes, though surprised, showed less on their chissled faces. 
Apparently Sorela was willing to use destructive magic in dire situations. So powerful and dangerous,­ she thought. What could nonviolent magecraft achieve?
Serin moved up beside Leisa, kneeled. He wasn’t looking at her. She jumped. A sickening feeling came to her stomach. The bodies looked...gnawed, as though a pack of...something had go at them. 
Added with the smell of burnt flesh, that feeling in her stomach rose until she turned over to sick up.
“Is everyone else all right?” Lady Casen asked gravely. 
Falan fingered a small stab wound in his arm as murmurs abounded. Jasen touched Leisa’s arm. “Are you—“ he tried to say, but he shook so hard—like a leaf.
“I’m—I’m fine,” she told him tremulously. She wiped her mouth with the back of her hand, forced herself to her feet.
Looking into Sorela’s eyes, she felt like she wanted to cry. Unexpectedly, the mage took her by the shoulder, and then wiped Laisa’s face—almost motherly—with her billowing sleeve. 
“You’re soaking in blood, child.”
What was more horrifiying is that Sorela said the words as if she were talking about jam preserves!
Brassen still gaped between the two dead and mangled men-at-arms and the lady mage. Leisa tried not to look at the carnage, keeping her eyes shut, or else she would burst into sobs.
 “We must push on.” Sorela said. “We are nearly there.”
Liesa covered her face with her hand.
She wants to continue? 
How many more of them would die before they found Lord Jalen? If they found him at all? Perhaps none of them would escape this evil place.
Finally opening her eyes, she warily eyed the forest, eventually turning her eyes back up to the tangle above. She still felt like retching.
Oh gods—I will!

THIRTY-NINE—Death for A Whimsical Quest
Dark circles had appeared around the lady mage’s eyes as though she had not slept in days. Using those powers had obviously sapped her strength. But even so, the mage was persistent, as she said, “We must move on. Those creatures will not attack us again.”
Despite agreeing with her, Falan felt that he wanted to argue the point.
“How do you know?” Brassen growled. “They might just bring back twice those numbers for all yer witchcraft can tell!” 
Jasen regarded the fur-cloaked man, then turned to Sorela with a questioning look.
The man is right, Falan thought. Even if they were lucky, they still had to rescue Lord Jalen’s corpse from creatures much worse. Was it worth it? They might still survive if they turned back now. Lord Birtran would probably be gone. Likely, he thought they were dead. It had been two days without a sound. Surely he would think they were dead—taken off in the night by some Fellbeast.
He searched above, finding no sign of those creatures they had fought, as he had expected. But could they regroup for another attack? Falan doubted the lady mage would be able to fend off another attack. Without her help, they would have been overrun. He had seen plenty of war. But remembering the two men-at-arms still made Falan’s stomach turn. Now they kept their weapons at the ready at all times.
The lady mage seemed unworried, doggedly carrying on toward her goal, shoulders slumped. She leaned against Leisa for support. The younger woman was probably not much help. She was too small.
Perhaps the lady mage was too exhausted to care.
The wildlife of this accused place seemed to have returned, chirping or croaking, or making whatever noises they made. It took some of the edge off—for Falan anyway.
After a few more hours of travel, the mage turned to regard the others. Her chest heaved, but she was not puffing for air. “Stop. I must—we must rest and gather our strength.”
They made camp between three gnarled Blackwoods, giving them some enclosure against whatever else was out there.
Falan spread his fur on the cool ground and sat with his legs crossed and his sword balanced atop his thighs. “What do you think?” he asked Serin in a low whisper.
The other man shook his head. “We should have never bothered with this, Falan.”
“No, I mean, what do you think we should do?”
Serin gave him a quizzical look. “We have agreed to help the mage, so we will help the mage. Our word is our honor.”
It was, but was it worth dying for? They were being paid coin—as mercenaries. They had sworn no oaths of loyalty to this venture. One time Falan would have wholeheartedly agreed, but now... now he was not certain. He had broken an oath once before—but an agreement was an agreement—to break a contract seemed far easier than an oath. 
Falan regarded Leisa. She tried to hide her fear, but it was plain on her face. She was probably repeating some catechism taught to her by the mage over and over in her head. Maybe it was the only thing keeping her from breaking down. The girl was terrified and the stable boy wasn’t doing much better.
Brassen bolted upright. “What are we doing here? We should go back while we still can.”
Sorela frowned. “You know what we are about, Master Brassen.”
Brassen’s face reddened. “He’s dead!” Some of the men-at-arms nodded in agreement. “There’s no reason to go on.” 
Their commander, along with five sixths of their company dead, it was a wonder the guardsmen did not side with Brassen in revolt then and there.
It’s her keeping them in line, Falan thought. 
Hope showed on the scared stable boy’s face. He wanted out of the Blackwood as much as anyone else, maybe more. The lady mage seemed to be the only one truly committed. If it could be called that. It was more like dogged determinism. “We go on!” she said, her lips tightening. “You want your gold, do you not?” She eyed Brassen, a look of anger and disgust on her face. She turned to Falan with the same look.
He did not believe she could read minds, but she was looking at him as if she knew. 
Did she know?
Lord Jalen was dead. More than two weeks had passed since his disappearance. How could he possibly still be alive? If he was in the Blackwood, he was a corpse!
If he was still alive, it was more likely the Soles were holding him hostage.
The lady mage thought it her duty to explore every possibility before returning to announce her failure, it seemed. Even then hope would not be lost to her, not if the Soles were holding the boy, but to know that would take weeks to find out, possibly longer. 
If the boy was taken by some Fellbeast, he was surely dead. Was his corpse worth their lives just so the lady mage could offer closure to his parents?
He stabbed at the dark dirt with his dagger. It was so black it seemed more like the soil found at the base of a volcano. There were no volcanos even close to the Blackwood. 
The forest really was cursed! 
“I agree with Brassen,” Falan said, feeling a pang of guilt as he uttered the words. To be craven was not the way of a Serafe. But was it really craven to save one’s own life?
The lady mage turned to regard him, eyes turning to slits. “I thought I could trust you, Falan.” 
Falan wanted to get up and take a step back. The woman’s bruised eyes and disheveled hair, accompanied with her fierce gaze made her look well disturbed. “My Lady, this quest... the boy is dead, and I will not die for a corpse. Or let you kill your company.”
The mage’s back straightened. “How do you know he is dead, Serafe? Did you see his body and forget to mention it?” 
Was she near to tears, or did she want to pull her hair out? Either way, the mage’s reaction made Falan feel even worse. He kept a cool tone, though. “I do not care about the gold. I am leaving.” He turned to the man covered in furs. “Are you coming Brassen?”
“Aye.” He smiled, then nodded. “Aye, that I am!”
“Gorkis?” 
Gorkis crossed his thick arms, shook his head. “It is not my way.” 
Now he felt like a traitor. A craven one, he thought. Better to live with shame than to die an honorable man. The mage was not his queen. “Serin, are you coming?”
Serin was intent on his boots for a moment, his fists on his hips. He looked at Falan, shook his head. “No. I cannot.” 
Both men knew what it meant to stay or leave—there was nothing else to say. Falan turned to the rest of the group, keeping eye contact away from Sorela. “Does anyone else want to come with us? If so, now is the time.” His eyes went to Leisa and the stable boy in turns. He would not ask them directly, though he gave them the chance to speak up if that was what they wanted. Surprisingly, Leisa said nothing. He thought she would have been one of the first to speak. The girl looked at her feet when Falan’s eyes came into contact with hers. 
Without an answer, he began to pack his fur as Brassen shouldered his own pack. Jasen stood with a few of the men-at-arms. They quickly made to look as though they only wanted to stretch their legs when the mage’s fiery eyes landed on them.
Falan and Brassen stepped out from the cover the Blackwoods when Sorela turned to them. “The Blackwood is no place for craven men,” she hissed. Then a gust of wind buffeted them. “BE GONE!”
Falan glanced over his shoulder, feeling a solemn traitor. “May your swords move swiftly if battle finds you.” It was a Nelothan sentiment, but it felt right. Falan really did wish them the best of luck, even though they were surely going to die.
If Jalen truly was in this cursed wood, then a suicidal quest would be an honorable venture. But I won’t throw my life away on a whim.

FORTY—The Lair
After a large meal and several hours of sleep, some of Sorela’s strength had returned. How long had she slept? Time was all but impossible to tell here. She would have pushed on to the Saval lair earlier, had it not been for her drained strength. They would need to find the boy and get out alive. She had to find him, if only to find what remained of his corps—even that would save countless lives in Lord Warfink was willing to stay his hand.
The others were less wearied as well. Good. They would need their strength. At least the others honored their agreements with her. But Sorela could not say that Falan’s departure hadn’t weakened her resolve somewhat.
She would find the boy. She would! Either dead, or alive, hoping alive, though Sorela was under no delusions. Despite her anger, she understood why Falan had left. As often as lords and Serafes spoke of honor, she would have thought that a man like Falan would rather die than forsake such things. Apparently not. 
She finished eating with a drink of water before packing everything away into her leather bag. When the others were ready, they left the camp and started down the hill into a large hollow. 
Sorela frowned at the map. They only had a few hours of travel left before they would reach what looked like a rocky basin with a fissure at the center? She could not be certain the depiction was accurate. It did not matter. She would push forward until she discovered whether Lord Jalen was there or not.
Despite the small chances of succeeding, Sorela could not help but feel her heart beat with excitement. And terror. “Thank you for staying,” she told Serin as they waded through calf-high water that blackened with sediment. They were so close.
“I made an agreement with you, my lady,” he said. “As a Serafe I am sworn to abide by it, even if our agreement was only for gold.”
“It seems Falan did not think so.” 
Serin’s eyes fell to the murky water. He seemed reluctant to speak about Falan. Sorela wondered if parting here in the Blackwood meant the end of their friendship.
They exited the waters at the base of the hollow and began trudging up a steep hill covered with that leathery grass that grew as high as their waists, boots squishing with every step. 
After five or six hills with hollows of glassy water at their bases, they crested a hill overlooking a large rocky depression. Streamers of water trickled along the black jagged rocks toward the base of the bowl and disappeared into a crag.
The Saval lair. Why do I keep using the Hansa word? They’re fellbeasts.
The small fissure was near ten or fifteen paces long, and maybe two or three paces wide. The others trudged up behind her. She studied her map to be certain. Sorela was in fact, certain. The depiction was quite accurate, more so than she had expected. The Hansa had never been known for their art. 
Serin lowered himself to his stomach amidst the tall grass. “Get down. If anything is watching, this grass will keep us from being seen.” 
At least until they made to venture down to that fissure. Leisa winced, pointing to the base of the bowl. “We have to go in there?” The stable boy swallowed. 
“Do we have any rope?” Serin asked.
Sorela did, and wondered why Naikal gave it to her. The Hansa explained that the Saval lair was indeed inside the ground. 
Sorela’s fear intensified. She was not afraid of enclosed spaces, or the dark. But this... She had silently feared this moment since making out for the lair. No wonder Falan had left.
Her heart thumped inside her chest hard enough to make her ears hurt.
“We have no way of knowing what’s even down there!” Leisa hissed.
Shaking his head, Serin’s mouth turned wry.
“You wish you had left with Falan?” Sorela asked, her eyes moving between the Serafe and Leisa. The girl probably did. Sorela did not blame her, but when Falan left, Leisa had chosen to stay. 
She is worthy of the Hall, Sorela told herself, making her decision at that moment.
All trace of mirth vanished from the Serafe’s face. “No... no, I am with you to the end, lady mage.”
“As am I,” Gorkis said.
Leisa said nothing, though she nodded, apparently having steeled herself. Sorela would tell the girl later.
“Thank you.” She would have had to change her plan drastically if Serin or Gorkis had left as well but two stout swords against whatever monstrous sorcery lay in wait, would be a formidable force--hopefully. She would find Lord Jalen, either here, or when she reached out to Master Maikar in the Solen capital. She would have done that first, but if the boy was in the Blackwood—and still alive—he would not have much time.
The boy is dead. 
Those had been Falan’s words. Sorela could not accept them until she saw his body. Ignoring her doubts and her fears, she turned toward Leisa “Are you prepared for this, child?”
The girl blinked. “I—yes, lady mage,” she said, sounding uncertain.
“Good, because this will be your final test before I make my decision. Do you understand?” She had already made her decision, but the girl needed one more reason to stay strong during this hour of terror. 
Leisa’s eyes widened and she nodded vigorously.
“Know this,” Serin said, addressing Leisa, but then to the group he continued, “Bravery is not the absence of fear, but the ability to overcomeit.”
“We will prevail,” Sorela added. “Now,” she said to Serin, “what do you believe is the best plan of action?” 

FORTY-ONE—Into the Crag
Leisa’s skin tingled and her stomach roiled, like it wanted to jump out of her throat. This would be her final test. But she didn’t want to be a mage now, even if Lady Casen agreed to take her to the Hall. Leisa wanted to forget about adventure and return to Nalandor and continue her duties as a handmaiden. 
She searched for Serin along the edges of the bowl. He had left nearly an hour ago to scout for anything that might sound an alarm, or worse, attack them. 
Where is he?
As if the lady mage had read her mind she said, “He will return soon. Be calm.”
“I am calm.” A lie. She tried to banish the fear, but Leisa was terrified. She was surprised her voice was as steady as it was. 
A scurrying of grass came from behind. Leisa jerked around, heart skipping a beat, but it was only Serin moving up the hill to join them once again.
“I searched the perimeter of the entire basin and there’s nothing out there.”
Gorkis regarded him. “Are you sure?”
Serin nodded to the burly man. But why would those creatures—Saval, Naikal had called them—need to post sentries? This was not the regular world. What else in the Blackwood would want to attack monsters? They were monster, right? She’d been to afraid to ask, or maybe simply too sheepish to ask an obviousu question.
Maybe there are bigger monsters, Leisa told herself. 
She had heard that the Saval had wings and fangs the size of a man’s forearm. She’d even heard stories of them taking people away in the middle of the night, like they’d taken Jalen—at least that was what the lady mage thought. But she had always thought those were just bedtime stories.
People were always taken from villages near the dark forest. It turned out, the stories were true. Lord Birtran had said so. Maybe those winged fellbeasts were the bigger monsters. They certainly sounded much more threatening than those little wretches they’d battled with.
She shuddered. 
Did the winged ones kill before hauling people off into the forest, or did they take them kicking and screaming? What did they do with you once they had you inside their lair? Leisa had heard the monsters only ate meat. But those were pieces of the stories. Just because they took people away in the night like people said, did not mean the other things were true. But why else would they take people into their lairs? She shuttered again, muttering a curse.
The lady mage gave her a look. Turning to Serin, she told him to lead the way. 
The bowl of the rocky hollow was steep and slippery, but there were plenty of cracks and small outcroppings to make the climb easy enough. No Blackwoods grew here. Too much thick rock. 
What was most ominous was that she couldn’t see the sky for the rainclouds overhead. Leisa wanted to see the sky. She couldn’t help searching the edges of the hollow where that thick grass met black rock. Serin said he checked the entire area, but still imagined one of those monsters appearing to snatch her into that crag.
The crag we’re going to climb into, she thought with a shiver. Gods, why was I so stupid to ask Sorela to let me along with her? 
Gingerly, Leisa stepped near the edge. Her heart pumped a little faster and her breathing became more rapid. She wanted to get a look, to dispel her fear. Small streams of water trickled into the dark crag, disappearing into blackness, only the sounds of water hitting rock came back.
Serin ruffled through his bag, pulled out a small lamp that he fastened to one of his straps. He did the same for Sorela and Leisa as the men-at-arms lit their torches.
Everyone stood still, looking at one another apprehensively. Leisa recognized what was on their faces—even the lady mage. 
Fear.
Serin seemed to shake himself before grasping the thick coil of rope. He found a large rock, and tied one end to it before dropping the coil into the abiss before them.
Gods, gods, gods—why did I want to come? She moved to carress her sword hilt, and noticed how badly her hands were shaking. She shivered as well, against the cold wet rain. It was hot in the Blackwood, but  was cold here where the trees didn’t grow. 
The handmaiden suspected that the only reason the rain was rain at all was because of the heat of the blackwood—otherwise all the water around them would be ice and snow!
Gods—she couldn’t see a thing. “How do we climb in the dark? These lamps aren’t very efficient.”
Serin took a torch out of his bag, lit it by touching it with Gorkis’ torch. He leaned over the edge and dropped it. A moment later it thumped against the bottom.
Leisa swallowed, trying to force the knot in her throat to go down as she tried to make out the material below the dim orange light. Were those bones? She couldn’t say, the torch didn’t light a very large area.
Serin took a deep breath, told the four men-at-arms to keep a watch. “Gorkis and Jasen, follow after the lady mage.” 
“I’m coming,” Liesa said.
Serin raised an eyebrow. “It’s no place for a girl such as—“
“No,” Sorela said, breaking in. “She comes.”
Serin paused. “Very well,” he conceded, then the strong-armed Serafe took hold of the rope and began to repel down, seemingly without a care or a fear.
I wish I had that strength, Liesa thought, noticing the Sorela, too, had steeled herself as hard as Serin.

FORTY-TWO—A Fool’s Honor
With Brassen at his side, Falan moved quietly through the thick leathery grass. Had the others made it to the Saval lair? He was safe compared to what they would face. Surely they would die in this accursed place.
Brassen whispered in his gruff voice, talking about the food he would eat and the woman he would buy.
For all Brassen’s “merry plans,” they made Falan feel shame. He had not acted the Serafe. I am not a Serafe anyone, he told himself. Just a coward.
Earlier, one of those wretches had skittered above them. Without bows, nether of the two could take the creature down before it escaped. They had decided to change their course, skirting a semi-circle a league or so out of the way. When all seemed quiet, they made camp between a large rock and a coiling Blackwood that seemed to snake along the ground like some hideous serpent before finally growing upward toward the light of the world. The spot they had chosen provided ample cover.
After a quiet meal and several hours of waiting, sure that none of those wretches knew where they were, they continued on their way after reaching the original path—if it could even be called a path—the way they had traversed toward where Lord—No! Lord Jalen is not even in the Blackwood!
Falan kicked at a clump of dead leaves. Brassen gave him a look, but did not say anything. It was easy enough for the fur-cloaked man to break his pact with the mage and decide to leave, but Falan’s honor was stronger than that—at least... he thought it had been. Evidentially not. 
What did the future hold for a Serafe without honor? Having broken an oath to his lord, and now a contract with a mage, what else might he turn aside in the future? Would he become a ruffian who only cared about himself, the kind of man who would abandon anyone so long as it suited his own ends? That had not been the reason he refused to carry out Lord Malkar’s orders!
He grimaced.
Falan could not be that man. He had broken his oath for good reasons, but leaving the others to save his own skin? It was pure craven. He stopped walking. “Master Brassen, I am going back.”
Brassen turned, bewildered. “What?”
“Lower your voice. I said I am going back. I cannot leave them like this—to die in some hole. Not in this place.”
Snarling, Brassen waved dismissively. “Fool Serafes and their fool honor! Go then.” He started walking, muttering curses.
Gods he was loud. He is an oaf as she rightly said.
Breathing deeply, Falan began trotting back toward where he had last seen the others, hoping he would be able to track them as they went to their final destination in this dark place. He felt a fool—like a child who hadn’t been able to make up his young mind.
Would they take him—
Abruptly A voice called, straining to stay quiet. He turned, sword raised and searched the darkness.
Nothing.
That voice had not been Brassen’s.
It called again, a short form appearing between two Blackwoods just after. Falan realized it was Naikal standing there.  
Lowering his sword, he asked the Hansa woman what she was doing there.
“This is where I hunt,” she said, gesturing with her free hand, her spear held tight by the other. “I saw what happened between you and the...”—she made a face--“the other man.”
Falan did not say anything. Naikal walked nearer, raised her chin. “I will hunt with you.”
Falan frowned. “What about your father?” 
The Hansa woman moved strangely, possibly shrugging, though Falan could not tell. “I told my father I was going to hunt, so I will hunt. Saval make for good sport.” She smiled a white toothy smile.
“You hunt them?”
Naikal rolled her eyes. Falan raised a skeptical eyebrow at the short, four-fingered Hansa woman. She was barefooted, and thin. Not doubting that she was adequate at hunting, he wondered if she could fight a warrior’s fight. He did not want to get her killed in a suicidal rescue attempt for some lordling that was probably dead.
Naikal’s inhumanly large eyes turned to slits. “What are you waiting for, humaaan? Take off your boots!” she commanded. “You are...too loud,” she finished, flashing those sharp white teeth in what might have been another grin. Or was she snarling at his ignorance?
“Are you certain you want to do this, Naikal? We are all certainly going to die.”
She said nothing, only stared at him with large curious eyes. Finally he did as she ordered. As he went to stow the boots in his bag, she took him by the wrist and shook her head. “No,” she said, taking the boots and tossing them to the ground.
Naikal turned away from him and took off at a brisk run. She was fast, but not faster than Falan, and she ran at a steady pace, one which Falan could keep up for hours. He only hoped that when they arrived to where the others were, it would not be too late.

FORTY-THREE—Ancient Ones
Something crunched beneath Sorela as she stepped onto the ground. Her hands burned from the climb down the course rope. A draft gusted into the cavern from the clearing above, making her shiver. Water rivulets had soaked her cowl. As cold as the air currents were, she welcomed them as they dispersed the putrid smell of decayed death that hung in the air. An opening in the rainclouds above revealed bright stars flecking the sky. 
They gave Sorela solace.
Lantern held high, Serin made his way down the large mound. The torch he dropped earlier had guttered out, so she bent to get a look at what she was standing on as Leisa crunched down beside her. “Are they bones?” the younger woman asked uncertainly.
“What!” Jasen exclaimed still climbing down above them.
Sorela glared at the boy. Does the fool want to get us killed?
Bones indeed, as many as Sorela had ever seen in one place. Was the island mound made of them? She did not doubt that many years of hunting would one day amount to such a large pile. Not if the predators were winged fellbeasts.
Leisa and Jasen whispered incredulously between themselves as they inspected the mound. “We should never have come here,” the stable boy say.
Sorela lifted her sodden hood with one hand as she held her lantern high. She made her way toward Serin.
Gorkis grunted as he inspected the bones beneath his feet. “Many of these are human.”
There were also many other skeletons belonging to different creatures as well. Many, maybe one in five, were Hansa. Others belonged to those wretches. Some were animal bones. Still others seemed to be the bones of other sentient creatures she could not identify. They looked ancient, covered in cobwebs and thick layers of dust. Some of the skeletons had strange armor, or gripped weapons of design she had never seen before. 
How long did fellbeasts live?
They cannot be ancient, she told herself. The Blackwood was two hundred and fifty years old. How the bones of soldiers from a race she had never known existed find their way here? There would be much to talk about with the council of elders when she got back. If she got back. 
Luckily the cavern seemed to be temporarily deserted, but it was impossible to say for those other passages. 
“The cavern splits off two ways,” Serin breathed. “If Lord Jalen is here, we need to split up.”
Sorela nodded. “I agree. Master Gorkis with me. Leisa, Jasen... follow Serin and do as he says.” 
Liesa gave her a look. She wasn’t sure what that was. It almost seemed to Sorela like one of abandonment, or perhaps, simply surprise mingled with curiosity.
But I cannot be at your side at all times, Child—and so you will go with Serin. Her insticts told her that here in this place would be her ultimate test—perhaps for all of them. Gods forbid it was the time of their doom.
She did not say the thought aloud, and with one last look at Leisa, Sorela began to make her way down the mound, bones cracking beneath her feet with every step.
The corridor before her and Gorkis was dark and cold and the mage sensed a forboding air. Had she known young lord Jalen was not in this place, she would have immediately ordered they all climb back up the rope and out of this fell cave.
She shivered again, not from the cold.
“Are you all right, lady mage?” Gorkis asked. He practically towered over here.
Looking up at him, the lights of their lanterns casting harsh shadows over his features, she nodded.
Looking down the cold corridor, she thought, Gods give us strength, Give me strength.
The mage and the barbarian began making their way forward. “I sense the hour of swords and sorcery may likely be soon upon us, my friend.”
“Aye, my lady,” Gorkis murmured. “I as well.”

FORTY-FOUR—Black on Red
Liesa held her lantern as high as she could to get a better view. Without it, and Serin’s torch, the caves would be black as pitch. 
Stalactites and stalagmites lined the top and edges of the passage which grew dark and narrow. Serin’s sword, not regal like Falan’s, gave her a little comfort. She tightened her hand over the hilt of her own blade still in it’s scabbard.
A drip of ice cold water landed on Leisa’s neck. She spasmed from the surprise and shivered, doubting they would find their way back if they lost their light.
Curse this place!
The passage opened into another cavern, though here the roof was much lower and the stalactites and stalagmites formed pillars in incongruent placements.
“Look at this,” Serin said, moving closer to one of the thicker pillars with a red tattered banner. 
The symbol, if it could even be called that, looked as if it were a black scratch of four claws on red. “Is that...?”
Serin didn’t need to answer, all he did was nod. 
“They aren’t just monsters?” Jasen asked.
“Oh, they are monsters,” the Serafe said. “But they are also much more than that.” 
A shiver ran up Leisa’s spine. She would have preferred that they were just animals, even if very dangerous animals. That these creatures had cognitive thought showed how evil they were.
Slowly she inched her blade out if its narrow scabbard. Why hadn’t she done that earlier? 
Mages are brave, child. 
Sorela’s words.
Leisa wasn’t a mage.

FORTY-FIVE—A Serafe’s Return
Falan crawled beside Naikal through thick grass that crested the hill above a large depression. It alsmost seemed to be the cone of a tiny volcano. Inside were black rocks, but instead of course volcanic rock, the mineral deposits were smooth. It was like nothing Falan had ever seen before. 
“There,” Naikal said, pointing with one of her sharp-nailed fingers. “Your soldiers have survived the journey.”
“They are not my soldiers,” Falan said. The Hansa woman gave him an odd look, probably wondering why he had said that. “Never mind,” he added, rising to his feet.
The four men-at-arms shifted uneasily as they peered about for intruders, nearly loosing a bolt into Falan’s chest when he made himself known. “Lord Serafe!” one of the men exclaimed. “Forgive me.”
“It’s all right, soldier.”
“You came back?”
“Yes,” he said, making his way closer. He peered into the fissure.
Blackness.
“The others went down less than half an hour ago, my lord.”
“And why are you not with them, man?”
“Forgive me, lord Serafe, but I—“
Falan interrupted. “Do not call me that.”
The the man-at-arms, barely a boy, nodded, half eyeing the surrounding hills as if expecting an ambush by some monstrosity at any moment. 
Falan snapped his fingers to get the young man’s attention.
“Apoglogies my—I mean, Master Nogal. The lady mage told us to guard the rope.”
“Good,” Falan said. “Continue as you were. You other three—with me.”
They regarded him uncertainly, then moved to obey. To the man still guarding the rope, Falan pointed a stern finger. “Our best chance is for you to remain unseen, low and out of sight.” The guard nodded vigorously.
Falan looked up into the sky. There were a few clouds, but the stars were showing bright. A beautiful contrast in this evil place. He moved to the edge of the fissure, taking hold of the wet rope. “Let’s go.”

FORTY-SIX—Knives and Prayers 
Sorela nearly bent over to sick up as she and Gorkis Sek pushed their way—cloak sleeves over their mouths—toward the light ahead. The smell was unbearable Ragged canvas over hangings cordoned off large sections of the cavern, some stained with dark brown splotches.
She hadn’t seen a lot in her day, but Sorela knew that those brown stains were in fact old blood. Accompanied by the sweet acrid smells of rotting meat, it was unmistakable. 
The rancourus odor seemed to come in waves, carried by faint drafts of cool air. Sorela wrinkled her nose under her sleeve as she pushed the tingling sensation in her throat out of her mind.
Where is it coming from? she wondered, pushing through another row of tattered canvas, ready to strike down anything in her way. Unfortunately killing was unavoidable in the Blackwood. She had no qualms about striking down a fellbeast, though.
Her eyes widened in shock
Gorkis Sek instinctively moved in front of her, ready for an attack. He looked on the verge of retching himself after laying eyes on the strung up bodies. This area of the cavern was quite obviously... quite obviously... 
Oh gods!—I’m going to retch up…
“They prepare their food here?” Gorkis muttered, pushing harder against his sleeve.
Sorela’s stomach involuntarily emptied on the damp rocky ground. She coughed hoarsely. It was so very unbecoming of a mage to be stricken so.
Gods! Do not let this be. Please, do not let lord Jalen be... 
She had to force herself not to continue sicking up. “I cannot think of a worse way to die,” she croaked, wiping her mouth with the back of her hand.
“I am... sorry, lady mage,” Gorkis said, lowing his sword. “Perhaps—“
The canvas in front of the large man ripped aside.
Sorela jumped back. “Gorkis!”
With an explosion of blood, three spikes stuck out of Gorkis’ chest, his booted feet half a pace from the ground.
His spear clattered to the ground and he moaned a death rattle through a gushing of blood over his chin.
All the gods and goddesses! 
“GORKIS!”
The powerful warrior’s head lolled toward her. “Hngh!”
“Gorkis?!”
“R—RUN!”
Then the fellbeast flung him aside like a bundle of rags. Sorela did not watch to see where Gorkis would land, but rather uttered an incantation of fire as she scrawled the rune. The monster burst into flames, howling and flailing. It crumbled into a charred heap of burnt flesh.
Eyes wide, both hands outstretched, Sorela breathed in and out, her fright so powerful she felt as if she had been kicked in the midsection. Each of her exhailations came out a hoarse rasp of air.
The beast was dead. She turned, ran for Gorkis. She rolled the north man to his back, muttering an incantation of healing as she did so.
And then she was flying through the air.
Flailing, she struck the rocky ground, her palms skidding and her chin bouncing off of the smooth rocks. In a heep, she cried out as pain spread through her ribs, unaware as to weather her landing or that powerful strike from her new foe had been what wounded her.
She winced, turning for a counter attack, but the second fellbeast, seven feet tall, wings folded behind it’s back like a man beast fused with some evil undead thing,  was already upon her.
The creature hissed through its skinless mouth, its eyes alight with wicked hatred as it ambled forward, claws—like knives on its hands—reaching out for her. 
Sorela scrambled back and screamed, in anger, in agony—but most of all in a primitive fear that bellied the truth that she wasn’t afraid of her own death.
The hour of her doom had come.

FORTY-SEVEN—Blood and Magic
“Naikal—slow down!”
“We do not have time for slow, humaaan,” the Hansa replied quietly. She made her way out of the passageway into a cavern with tattered cloth separators.
At least Naikal was quiet. Falan had told the three men-at-arms in their chain and plate to stay behind at least thirty paces so they would not inadvertently give themselves away by the noise they made, allowing the monsters to surprise them. 
So far Falan had not seen one. Maybe they would not see any. If they were lucky. He shouldered through a hanging to find Naikal staring down at the dead form of Gorkis Sek, a hole in his stomach and blood running from his chin to his chest.
Damnation! 
Falan wanted to snarl.
He motioned to the men-at-arms to hold still. The Hansa woman looked at him, her hand over her mouth like she had done before when they first met. She seemed not to notice the putrid smell of death hanging in the air.
Falan tightened the grip on his sword hilt, wrinkling his nose and breathing through his mouth. He could almost taste the stink on the air.
Naikal slowly made her way forward, spear at the ready. Her round ears perked as she motioned past another line of tattered dividers. She peeked through and her head jerked back to look at him, eyes wide.
Falan moved up beside her and a knot formed in his stomach as soon as he recognized what he was seeing.
It was the lady mage! She was hanging upside down by her feet. They were bound and her arms dangled limply as a tall, monstrous form with wings winched her off the ground. 
Falan gritted his teeth so hard they made a sound inside his skull. Sorela was dead, about to have her body defiled—gutted like these other skinless corpses hanging about.
Silently, Naikal pushed her way through the hangings. Falan was conscious of his own bare feet on the cold cave floor, glad the Hansa woman made him remove his boots. Falan was going to kill this evilbegotten whoreson of a beast.
Naikal looked at him. Falan nodded, receiving one in return before the Hansa raised her spear for the attack.
Her prey was huge. 
Naikal struck, piercing the creature’s flesh with a deep thrust of her spear. The monster howled, whipped around toward its attackers and flinging Naikal’s spear out of her grasp. The beast snarled, baring fangs and claws toward the Hansa.
Falan charged, sword raised high.
He took an arm off with a downward strike. Blood spirted. The creature howled again, but now it was a more guutteral keening as it clutching its bloody stump in agony.
“Godsdamn you to the deepest pits of the hells!”
Falan gave it no time to recover, bringing his sword up and into the monster’s neck, then he removed his blade as the fellbeast gurgled its last breath and fell dead.
Naikal was already lowering Sorela to the ground, the weight of the mage nearly taking the small Hansa woman off her feet. The men-at-arms rushed passed the dividers, mouths open, gasping at the dead, monsterous form at their feet, and that of their fallen allies—the mage most of all.
“We have to find the others,” Falan said. “Before it’s too late!”
“I know, humaaan!” Naikal said, eyes wide in what could only be irritation. “There were only two passages out of the main cavern.”
Falan was still gripping the hilt of his sword so hard it hurt his knuckles. Thick rivulets of blood rolled down the blade through the fuller depression. Sorela. Dead. It made him so angry—more than he thought possible. But why was—
“Falan!” Naikal called. 
He turned, glanced toward the Hansa who cradled Sorela’s body in her arms. Sorela blinked her eyes open.
“Sorela!”Falan dropped to his knees.
The mage groaned, moving her bloody chin as she made to speak. “I should be, Serafe…”
 “You’re alive! I thought you were dead.” 
“Mmm,” Naikal noised. “Your gods must be merciful.”
“Indeed they are,” Falan said, feeling relief. He couldn’t help but smile like a fool.
“Lord Jalen,” Sorela murmured. “He’s here—I’m certain of this.”
“Don’t speak. You need to rest.” Falan wasted no time. He cut Sorela’s bonds with his dagger before gently lifting the slender woman into his arms. 
“You came back for a reason, Falan,” Sorela said, looking up at him. “Please… we must find the boy.”
Falan looked into her green eyes and nodded. “I know. We will. I swear it.”
Naikal muttered something from behind, by the Serafe ignored her. “I forgot to put my sword in my scabbard. Naikal?”
“Yes, yes.” 
The long sword seemed quite unwieldy in her hands, but she managed to shove the blade in. He would need a new scabbard with that much blood clogging the inside.
Falan glanced about. “Everyone—stay together. We must find the others.”
Sorela said nothing. Her eyes were closed, and Falan couldn’t say he wasn’t worried for her well being, even now that she was cradled in his arms—safe from these evil demons of the Blackwood.
“I am ready,” Naikal said as she hafted her spear.
Falan nodded. “Lead the way, my friend.”

FORTY-EIGHT—Lordling
When he heard the demon coming back he hid under the refuse pile—the pile of clothes torn off the others before they had been butchered.
There was some kind of scuffle, but he didn’t move to see. There was always a scuffle followed by screaming and sobbing before the end came.
No! he told himself forcefully while he trembled uncontrollably. Do not think about that!
There had been two voices that time... The monster’s had butchered a man and a woman that time.
No!—Nonono!
There were more voices again. Why so soon? They could not still be hungry. He uncovered his ears to wipe the wet from under his eyes. Shivering, he stole a look through the tattered clothes, careful not to rattle his chain manacled about his ankle.  
Who was he fooling? His chain was only five paces long! The monsters knew just where to find him.
Jalen frowned, eyes widening. 
There was a tall man with a woman in his arms, three other men surrounding him. No. Five men, or was the fifth a woman? 
His heart started thumping.
Those people were armed. Had they killed the monsters? He hadn’t heard any fighting. But then, he had been sleeping.
They started for the exit. Jalen burst out of his pathetic hiding place. “Wait!” he croaked, pushing back the refuse. “Please! Help me!”
Gods, help me!
“HELP ME!”

FORTY-NINE—Chains and Cries
Jasen waved. “I found another one!”
“We’re coming, Jasen,” Leisa hissed, trying to keep her voice down. She nodded to Serin and the Serafe brought his blade down onto the chain holding a shackled prisoner.
“We must leave,” the filthy bearded man babbled. “We must leave, or they will come.”
“We are leaving,” Serin told him for the third time, “but first we must get you and the others out of chains.”
The prisoner wheezed, nodded as Leisa and Serin went to the next man. He had a long scraggly beard worse than the first.
“Thank the gods,” he said. “I was in Fellwind when they took me.” He was in better health. “I was stationed at the gate. Nearly had a heart attack when the beast came at me. Thankfully it didn’t kill me, gods be praised.”
Leisa nodded absently as she held her end of the chain tight across the ground with her boot. She glanced around. There was that feeling of being watched again. One of those monsters could be lurking in any dark corner. 
Too many dark corners.
“They came from the Blackwood,” the bearded man went on. “Dozens of them—at least, I think there were dozens. There could have been more.”
“Not dozens, you oaf,” the woman said, shaking her head and hugging herself. She had no clothes.
“Be quiet, Bral, they’ll hear us,” another prisoner said through a cough.
With another loud clang, the second man was free. Leisa winced as the loud noise echoed through the cavern. 
Jasen came forward. “Just one left. I looked everywhere and there’s no one else here.”
“Help!” a voice called.
Leisa cringed. He was even louder than Jasen. And if he gets any louder, we’re all dead, she thought.
They went to the third man and set him free in a matter of moments. “Now we can leave,” Serin said.
Screeching bats fluttered into the bar of blue light coming out of the crag above and into the Blackwood. “What was that?” Bral said. “Are they here? Are they here?”
“Silence, you fool!” Serin hissed, making a motion with his outstretched hand.
“We have to leave! They’re coming!”
Serin responded with a knuckled fist to ribs. The prisoner grunted, wheezed and was quiet, though his eyes continued to glance about wildly.
A deep throaty growl echoed into the cavern. All eyes moved toward the direction from where that inhuman sound had issued.
Serin rounded toward the passageway back to the main cavern, motioned hurriedly for everyone to get in front of him. 
A thump in the center of the cavern echoed toward them from behind and then that throaty growl came again.
Serin’s eyes widened. “Run!” 

FIFTY—Blackwood Company 
The lady mage was not heavy, but carrying the woman back through the passageway made Falan pant with exersion.
He called up to the men-at-arms, barely able to make out a black silhouette against a dark blue sky with bright stars. “The lady mage is unconscious,” he said, then ordered the soldiers with him up the rope. They would have to haul the woman to the surface.
At least she will be pleased we found the boy, he thought. The Blackwood knew what the lad had to endure in this cursed place. Sorela had been right all along. Falan glanced at the boy, then laid the woman down. 
“I’ll go first,” Naikal said. She jumped, hauling thin frame up the rope with such alacrity that would surprise any theater performer.
Falan looked about. Lord Jalan here. Sorela still alive. The Serafe was glad he had decided to come back. 
Frantic voices interrupted as they abruptly echoed out of the other passageway. Falan turned toward them as they became louder and more distinct.
 “Go, go, go! Run!” 
It’s Serin!
Yellow lantern light lit the passageway just before Leisa bolted out into the main cavern, eyes wide, panting. “They’re after us!”
Falan’s sword hissed out of its scabbard. “Get behind me.”
Jasen came into view next, and together they scrambled up the small island of bones, three scraggly men and a naked woman in the same shape as lord Jalen, hobbled behind her. 
Serin exited last and made his way up the mound and Liesa shrieked in horror at seing her mistress laying atop the mound of bones, barely lucid. “My lady!”.
Serin’s eyes flicked to lord Jalen and the barely conscious Sorela before he gave Falan a quick nod.
“No!” a panicked voice called. “Nonono!”
Falan turned around to find the lordling panicking because he wasn’t to be the first one up the rope. He scrambled to climb up first, fighting with the last soldier on his way up. He grunted, trying to climb at the same time.
“Enough,” Serin said, grabbing Jalen. 
“Get ready,” Falan said, ignoring the panicked lordling. “We’re about to make our stand.”
The waited for the fellbeasts for a moment. Finally, Serin said, “Well I’m glad you came back.”
“As am I, old friend.”

FIFTY-ONE—Nightsky
Leisa cradled Sorela in her arms, headless of the bones under her, or the cold water soaking through her cloak.
God’s be praised. You’re alive. 
The handmaiden looked up through the crag at the nightsky, raindrops landing on her face and in her eyes. She smiled, thanking the gods for Sorela’s life—though she had been badly wounded.
The other prisoners scrabbled at the rope, fighting to be first to climb out of their prison. Leisa didn’t care. She didn’t want to climb up that rope before the mage.
“Lord Jalen goes first!” Serin commanded, but when the other desperate prisoners didn’t listen, he bashed one man with his fist and he rolled down the mound of bones, flailing heavily before crashing at the bottom. “The lady mage goes next! Then Leisa—then Jasen. You sorry lot can go when they’re up!”
 The last man-at-arms on the rope was just scrabbling over the edge, shins kicking over the side. 
Jalen looked to the Serafe’s for permission. Serin gave their lord a nod of approval, and he scrabbled at the rope, but flailed like a fool. 
“No,” Liesa said. Having watched the others, she knew how to do it now. “Like this, my lord.” She showed his how to twirl his calf around the rope so he could us it for a foot hold to boost himself up one step at a time.
He nodded. “Thank you.”
Leisa smiled at the young man. He was her age. He did as instructed and climbed well.  
Sorela groaned, mumbling something indistinctly. 
“Everything will be all right, my lady,” Leisa assured her as she fumbled about with the bottom of the rope. “Help me tie her.”
Serin put up his sword and assisted.
“Hurry up,” Falan said. “They’re almost here.”
The rope was tight, but looked very uncomfortable under Sorela’s ample breasts. Leisa hoped hauling her up this way wouldn’t put black and purple bruises all over her. She had enough of those already.
After lord Jalen was up, she called to the soldiers above. “Pull!” 
With three men hauling her up, they made short work of getting Sorela out of this cursed pit.
“To arms!” Falan called.
Thumping footsteps echoed out of the passageway they had come from, followed by throaty words in a strange language that carried like the wind.
Leisa’s heart skipped a beat as she grabbed at her sword when two fellbeasts, half again the height of any man, emerged from the passageway. They hissed, faces contorting as they bared hand long fangs, their claws the length of Leisa’s forearm.
Her eyes widened.
“You ready for this?” Serin asked gravely, glancing at Falan.
“Are you?” Falan shot back.
The monstrous fellbeasts unfolded their wings which were nearly the span of the cavern and Leisa’s stomach twisted into a knot. With powerful beats of their bat-like wings, wind buffeted them all and Leisa covered her eyes, muttered a silent prayer.
A scream issued from above and came at them ending in a loud crack of bone. When Leisa opened her eyes she found one of the soldiers lay before her, a bloody mess.
Gods! She recoiled at the sight.
Panting, Jalen said, “Why did they leave? Someone tell me why they left?”
“Stop crying, Jalen,” Leisa said. “It’s going to be all right.”
“I’m not crying! WHY DID THEY LEAVE?”
“I do not know why!” Falan said, “We need to get out of here before they come back. Leisa—up the rope! You next, Jasen.”
The stable boy and soldier hopeful nodded vigorously. 
She didn’t want to say it aloud in front of Jasen. He was panicked enough as it was, but Leisa believed the fellbeasts had left the crag to get into the open where they could better fight.
She grunted as she pulled herself up the rope and using her calf just as she had instructed lord jalen to do.
Above, she could hear her lord’s panicked commands.

FIFTY-TWO—Fell Sorcery
Falan grunted as he helped the last captive over the edge.
Arms crossed, lord Jalen stalked back and forth muttering nonsense and occasionally whipping his head around in startlement to imaginary sounds. “We need to leave! We need to leave, now!”
“I’m of the same mind as the lad there,” Bral, the older man-at-arms still with the company said, nodding toward the boy. The lordling eyed the soldier sharply. If the boy was in a state because of his ordeal inside the fissure, he still acted the lord.
They were right, of course.
Even two fellbeasts can finish the rest of us off, Falan thought as he scooped up the lady mage. She was warm, but still in a dazed state. He nodded to Leisa. “She will be all right.” The girl looked worried as ever. “The lady mage did not knock her head. With a few days rest and some good food—“
Ponderously powerful wind beats cut him off as everyone focused their attention on the sounds, their heads swiveling about to find where exactly it was coming from.
Those powerful wing beats were coming closer.
Closer still.
Abruptly fellbeasts entered the clearing, strong gusts of wind buffeting them from above. 
The monsters howled and hissed. One of them alighted, flapped its colossal wings hard enough to send everyone to the ground. Falan fell to his back, shielding Sorela from taking any more rough treatment. When he was able to open his eyes his gaze landed on a red-robed monster, its clawed feet scraping against the rocks. It hissed a horrible, fiendish attack that physically buffeted them.
Bral was in its path path. The man-at-arms screamed, scrabbled to his feet, but it was too late. The fellbeast grabbed him.
“BRAL!” the other soldier nearby screamed.
Bral shrieked.
“Everyone,” Falan called. “Run!” 
Still holding Sorela in his arms, he picked himself up and made for the crest of the basin they were in.
Bral’s screaming and shrieking seemed to travel through the air, but Falan didn’t turn to see what was happening, only hearing the poor soldier’s body crack against rock, all sounds from the man abruptly ending.
But then Falan did turn, his eyes landing on the stable boy Jasen. He seemed too shocked and stunned to get up. Instead he rolled into a heap near the fissure opening from the fellbeast’s powerful screeching barrage. He would be the their next victim.
Falan gritted his teeth. “Move, boy!”
“Jasen! Come on!” Leisa called, waving her arms like a madwoman. 
The red-clad monster folded its wings, hissed with monstrous fangs as two more fellbeasts landed near the edges of the bowl, flapping their wings and buffeting them again. Falan fell back, tensed for the brunt of his fall to keep the lady mage safe.
They were surrounded. 
The red-clade monster was in their midst while the other two encircled the rest of the fleeing group, forcing them back to the center. To their collective doom. 
The robed one had to be their leader. A religious leader, or perhaps a shaman. It hissed again, uttered throaty commands to the others in that nightmarish language.
Using its talons, the leader began making strange movements in front of its body. Falan knew what those colorful runes meant.
 Leisa yelped. “Get out of the way!” She shoved him aside, then jumped for cover.
A ball of flame materialized in the clawed hands of the fellbeast. It shot forward and hit one of the men-at-arms. He burst into flame—he did not even writhe, just shot backward in a streamer of fire, a sizzling mass of charred flesh.
Leaving the unconscious Sorela where she was, Falan unsheathed his sword and charged, arcing his blade.
Die, you whoreson!
The Serafe swung his blade to cut off its arm, but the creature strafed from his path, turned and struck him with a backhanded blow to the chest. 
Falan landed on his back with a grunt, his body flaring with pain as the demon came forward for the kill.

FIFTY-THREE—Half Blade
Leisa could fight even if she couldn’t cast fireballs. She wasn’t bad with a sword, besides. She darted behind an outcropping of rock, fireball screaming passed her. Her face felt hot, and not because she had nearly been vaporized.
I’m going to kill that filth! She told herself forcefully despite her heart trying to thump its way out of her. 
Serin and Naikal fought the other two fellbeasts while Lord Jalen and the captives ran for their lives. 
She didn’t come all this way to watch a spoiled lordling run craven while she fought to stay alive! 
A Fellbeast clawed at Naikal. She jumped, landed into a roll behind the creature, then drove her spear into its back. 
The monster howled. It whipped at the Hansa with its claws, but she was too quick. She backed away, spear in hand as a body enveloped in flame shot into the air. It was one of the captives—charred into nothingness.
The monster in red was focused on the others. Leisa’s heart thumped harder but she took the opportunity, darting out of cover, sword raised. 
Only a deep stab—in the heart!—would kill it. Her thin blade wasn’t heavy enough to lop limbs off. 
Falan rushed the creature, but he failed to land a blow and was knocked to the ground. He was about to meet his end.
Her foot snagged on an outcropping. She grunted as her hands slammed against the wet rocks, her sword clattering metalically. Coughing, she rose to her knees as fast as she could. The monster was still unaware of her. 
Moving up behind the monster, she thrust her sword into its thigh, which was the size of her torso.
The monster screeched. Snarling, it swiped at the blade as if slapping at a particularly annoying bite fly. The sword snapped in two, hilt clanging to the rocky ground as the monster turned on her.
Liesa’s heart jumped into her throat.
She had little time to react. She ducked the claws, rolled between the creature’s legs and scrabbled to reach her sword hilt—it still had two handspans of blade. But then...
NOOOO! 
One of those clawed hands enveloped her forearm. 
She screamed, kicking to get away.
 Bones cracked and Liesa cried out. He struggling was futile as the monster lifted her to its snarling maw. 
Abruptly she was on the cold rocks, shrieking against the knives in her arm and the knew pain in her hip. She hardly heard the howling as heavy footfalls thumped away from her. 
Falan shouted but she couldn’t hear. Not through the pain. She felt dizzy. Her vision seemed to be closing in around her. What was happening?
Wincing, she shook herself, glanced toward Falan. His feet were off the ground, his body surrounded by thick hands, the claws surrounding him like a cage of knives. 
“Falan!” 
He didn’t have much time but she could still save him. She pulled the clawed hand from her forearm. The bloody stump still squirted, putting blood and filth all over her.
Knifing pain shot through her arm. She screamed. Stifling her cries, Leisa kicked over the course wet rock, good arm clawing while she held her broken one—gods, it hurts!—against her side.
She grasped the broken sword, pressed the blade against the monster’s heel where tendon met calf and leaned into her slice with as much strength and weight as she could muster. 
Blood flowed.
The fellbeast howled, lost balance and fell, falan still in its grip. The monster tossed him like a doll, then used its only arm to deliver a killing blow toward Leisa’s head.
She yelped, raised the broken hilt. The force of the creature nearly drove what was left of the two-edged blade into her face. 
She screamed, kicked at the snarling beast as she tried to get away from its clawed reach.

FIFTY-FOUR—Healing Magic
Her vision came into focus amidst screaming, shouts and screeching fellbeasts. Sorela blinked, surveyed the tempest as blood thumped inside her ears.
The stable boy and one of the soldiers were unconscious near the mouth of the fissure. Serin and another of the men-at-arms fought against a fellbeast taking flight. Naikal pulled her spear from a monster’s head, then rushed to aid Serin.
Where are the others?
Her eyes widened when they fell on a one-armed fellbeast gripping Falan in its clawed grip, the Serafe’s body unmoving.
Sorela’s stomach heaved and her heart skipped a beat when she realized Leisa at the creature’s feet.
Abruptly the monster howled and lost balance. It tossed Falan, then turn on Leisa.
Sorela had to act quickly.
She pushed her elbows back, rolled to her knees and staggered to her feet. The ground shook beneath her as she uttered an incantation of lightning while drawing a cascade of complex runes.
Quickly!
Fear roiled inside her. Pushing it away, the power materialized. If Sorela weaved the rune wrong in any way, she could inadvertently kill any one of the others.
The bolt shot, zigzagging through open space.
It cracked, slamming through the one-armed red-clad monster about to impale her soon to be apprentice, then traveled up where the other fellbeast was, killing it in mid-air with another thunderous explosion.
The two monsters fell to the rocky ground. They did not move after that. Heads glanced about in mild confusion.
The mage breathed a sigh or relief, inhaled and attempted to remain standing, but failed and fell to her knees and hands.
After a moment Leisa caught sight of her and trudged over the rocks toward Sorela as she nursed her arm. She was covered in blood.
Sorela sighed with relief, then lowered herself to the ground. She was so tired.
Falan stirred behind Leisa and the girl glanced over her shoulder. The man nodded to her and she returned the gesture.
The girl came forward. “Are you all right, my lady?” she asked, sinking to her knees. She eased Sorela’s head into her lap. 
She smiled up at the younger woman, then closed her eyes and uttered an incantation of healing while weaving the runes by rote. 
The girl watched with open amazement as Sorela’s palms alighted with yellow light. She pressed her hands against the girl’s head so she would receive its healing effects. 
The girl shuttered and Sorela rose to a sitting position. “How do you feel?”
Gingerly, Leisa felt at her arm. “It’s... it’s healed!” she said, smiling.
Sorela rubbed the back of her head. The hurt felt deep. Probably a concussion. She would not heal herself, not until everyone who needed healing was safe from danger.
Falan moved up, rubbing his neck. “I am going to track lord Jalen. He cannot have gone far.” 
Surprise must have shown on her face, because Serin said, “Yes, lady mage, we have saved lord Jalen. He ran off during the fighting.” 
She turned to Falan. “It seems, lord Nogal, you have more honor than I thought. What made you decide to come back?”
“It was the right thing to do, lady mage,” he said, glancing after Serin. “If you will excuse me. The Blackwood is a dangerous place, and I must help Serin retrieve your young lord.”
Sorela nodded, stifling a shiver. Snowflakes were coalescing on her shoulders. The woman forced herself to rise.
“No, my lady—you need rest.”
“Nonsense, child.” But of course it was true.
 She made her way past Naikal. The Hansa’s eyes followed her to the edge of the fissure, curious. 
She reached Jasen nursing more than one part of his body. “What happened, stable boy?”
The boy grunted. Before he could say anything, Sorela was already healing him, then did the same for the unconscious soldier who had accompanied them all the way from castle Warfing. A loyal man.
So tired... She had enough energy to perform a few more healings. “Leisa...”
“Yes, lady mage?”
Sorela moved toward the younger woman so they could have more privacy and smiled. “You will have to address me as Mistress very soon, child,” she said quietly.
A look of unease cross the girl’s face. Sorela glanced up at the crest where Falan, Serin, and lord Jalen were. 
Leisa saw them as well.
“Look what we have accomplished,” Sorela said, gesturing to lord Jalen. “We are not adventure seekers, or warriors. We are a force for good. The world is a better place with the Hall in it... The mages need new blood, child. Did you know lord Warfink was preparing to go to war to save his son?” Before Leisa could answer she added, “We have saved more lives than just lord Jalen’s.”
The younger woman still hesitated. 
Sorela smiled again, patted the girl’s shoulder. “Think about what I have said. You can give me your answer after we deliver the good news.” She leaned forward, kissed Leisa’s forehead. “Come, we must leave this place.” 

EPILOGUE—A Different Kind of Quest
Leisa put another riding dress into her saddle bag. Sorela was already waiting at the stables. She looked at her slender sword on the bed. She couldn’t tell it had been forged again since her time in the Blackwood. 
She wouldn’t need it in the Hall, but it would be a reminder of her bravery and perserverance, Sorela had told her.
Leisa smiled. Lady Casen would be her mistress, assuming Sorela was granted permission by the Elders. Sorela had assured her that she would not be turned away.
She finished packing and made for the stables. 
Unfortunately High Lord Nightkar’s war still raged with the Soles, but now meaningful talk of peaceful resolutions—with the Hall interceding, was beginning to take place. Perhaps both sides were tired of fighting. At the very least, Lord Nightkar wanted to end hostilities so he could launch his invasion against the Dar’nithie.
She entered the stable. “I’m ready, lady mage.”
Sorela turned, smiled. If the Hall allows me to train you—which they will—Leisa, you must call me ‘Mistress’ from now on. 
Leisa bowed the way she had been shown by the older woman—the way apprentice differed to Mistress or Master.
They rode from the stables and out of the castle grounds where Falan and Serin were milling about. “What are you still doing here?” Leisa asked. “I thought you’d left for Valamor already.”
Falan shrugged. “I only wanted to say farewell before we left.” He kicked his horse closer, leaned over, and embraced her with one arm. 
Leisa smiled as she embraced the Serafe as well.
Wheeling his horse back around, he said, “Well, we go south.”
“And we go west,” Leisa said.
Falan smiled, bowed politely. “Farewell, fair ladies.”
Sorela nodded to the two Serafes, and to Leisa’s surprise, she realized Sorela’s prolonged eye contact with Falan. 
Serin flicked a telling look toward them. Togther, Leisa and Serin wheeled their horses in their respective directions.
Sorela followed eventually, and Liesa turned to give one last wave, feeling a bit forelorn as she watched the two Serafes disappear behind the hill. 
“Perhaps you will see them again one day,” Sorela said. Mages are not slaves to the Hall.”
Yes, Leisa thought, nodding to herself. Perhaps I will council a lord in Valamor. After she completed her training, of course.
“Perhaps we may even see Naikal. I am a leading authority on the Blackwood now, after all. There is much to tell, and to discuss about that fell place.”
Liesa nodded, feeling no fear of such a proposition.
She gave one last look to Castle Warfink, hoping all the best for Jalen, and knowing he had a long journey ahead of him before he would be fully recovered.
“Let’s go, child,” Sorela said. 
It hadn’t escaped Liesa there there was a new fondness from Sorela ever since their time in the Blackwood. And another kind of sterness as well. 
“It’s time to make a mage of you.”
Liesa nodded, and regarded the other woman with what was probably a stupid-looking smile on her face. She fancies him!
 “What is it?” the mage asked amidts the soothing clop of the horses’ hooves.
“Nothing, Mistress.”
Sorela stared at her for a moment, her face taking on some minisculre recognition, then dropped to sternness. “Silence.”
“I didn’t say a thing.”
“I know your thoughts.”
Liesa’s eyes widened and her mouth dropped. “I knew you could read minds!”
“No!” Sorela stressed indignantly. “I can see it on your silly face!”
She did all she could to stifle her laughter, and she saw Sorela’s barely perceptible smirk from the corner of her eye as well.

AFTERWARD—A Note from Waraji-sama
Thank you for reading Blackwood company! I hope you’ve enjoyed the story. This is an edited version of my second novel ever written! 
I was so frustrated with my inability to come up with some ideas, that I just sat down and told myself that I woulf just make it all up as I went a long, and I did start off that way, though I wrote a few character notes along the way. Writing Blackwood Company was an excellent writing experience for me, and helped me grow as a writer tremendously—and I must have improved a lot, since writing it. While editing, I found myself scratching my head at the peculiar sentences I had written in the past. I believe now after this edit, it’s a much better story.
If you liked the book, please don’t forget to give it a rating, and if you’re the type to write reviews, don’t hesitate to let your thoughts be know, even if just a sentence or two giving your basical evaluation.
See you with the next one, my friends!
Waraji-sama

About the Author
Waraji-sama, if it’s to be believed that that’s his real name, is thought by some to be a wandering samurai, or a vagrant, or possibly a ninja—or perhaps in his infinite mystery, he’s none of these things. Whichever the case, he spends far too much time playing video games. It is known that he enjoys fantasy a great deal, as well as space opera, thrillers and even romance. It is suspected that he has lived in multiple countries. Perhaps he wanders home as Odysseus did after the great Trojan War in some realm unbeknownst to our world. And occasionally—by direct theft of a quote from a certain dwarf named Varric Tethras—he writes books. 

Mailing List

Other books and stories by Waraji-sama
Wakiagaru
Acheron
Haven
Skydrift
The Reconnoiters
Assault on the Spire Keep: A Story of Sword and Sorcery
Littlehand Hakuria

