


CATCH MY DRIFT
ON A SELF-DISCOVERY QUEST
By
IGOCHE J. IGOCHE







Catch My Drift
Published by Igoche J. Igoche
Copyright2017 Igoche J. Igoche
All rights reserved
This e-book is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This e-book may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each reader. If you’re reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.  
This is a work of fiction. Names, places, characters and incidents are either the product of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously, and any resemblance to any actual persons, living or dead, organizations, events or locales is entirely coincidental.



ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Foremost, I wish to thank God who bestowed in me the passion to write. I also appreciate my family for their supports and my friends for their encouragements and you that have spared your precious time to read this novel. I pray you find the novel worthwhile to meet your expectation. I remain honoured.
DEDICATION
I dedicate this literary work to my mother Mrs. Florence Ajuma Igoche. 
CHAPTER ONE
Mrs. Iyabo woke up a quarter to 5:00 am; she didn’t need to set the alarm to wake up early. She stretched her right hand to the left corner of the bed and tried to search for her torch light and wrist watch on the bedside table; she didn’t touch the torch light or wrist watch where she expected them to be. She searched around the table using her hand to feel the edges but couldn’t feel anything like her torch light or wrist watch. There was no electricity supply for her to use the electric bulb and even if there was, she wouldn’t want to wake Mr. Abiodun up with the reflection of light from the electric bulb. Mr. Abiodun was deeply asleep and snoring. Her marital vow ‘for better for worse’ had also made her endured Mr. Abiodun’s loud and irritating snoring while asleep.  
She was surprised that she hadn’t found the torch light or wrist watch after searching for over 30 seconds. She was certain that the torch light and wrist watch had to be nowhere else, but on the bedside table. She customarily kept both of them on the table. Mrs. Iyabo was still hoping that the time was 3:00 am and she would still have some time left to sleep thus was reluctant to stand up from the bed to search for the wrist watch and confirm the time. Yesterday was Sunday and it was always a busy day due to her numerous religious commitments; she would stay in the church for morning service and partake in group prayers during the day and personal devotion towards evening. She usually dedicated Sundays for religious activities through reparation and thanksgiving for God’s faithfulness.
However, unwilling she was, she had to stand up despite all odds as she remembered that she didn’t come home with her wrist watch on her wrist; she removed it and put it inside her bag during her intercessory prayer yesterday at the Church. It was prompted by her charismatic disposition and her perception as to the overwhelming effect of the Holy Spirit during her praying activities yesterday at the church as she was shaking and demonstrating in correspondence to the intoxicating presence of the Holy Spirit as emphasized by the pastor. 
She wouldn’t dare to presume the time to be about 3:00 am and continue to sleep. She was more or less the pillar of the family and the last time she presumed the time, she woke up when it was some minutes to 7:00 am; then night seemed to be longer than day and everybody in the house went to their various destinations very late; she was even queried at the office been a banker.
Mrs. Iyabo wouldn’t want to disturb her husband who was fast asleep; she's careful and observant as she moved so that she wouldn’t have to make any sound that would disturb him as he slept. Although she understood that Mr. Abiodun often slept like a log of wood and wouldn’t wake up if it would have been possible for a helicopter to set flight inside the room. Mr. Abiodun’s elder brother usually insinuated that there was always a resurrection when he woke up from sleep; he was probably dead when asleep. She was also tipped by her mother in-law before marrying him that Mr. Abiodun had only one profound problem which she would have to tolerate which she said was his insensitive nature when asleep even when the roof could be falling. She didn’t really know him before marriage. Parents had influences on the choice of wife then; parents would want their son to marry a good lady from a seemingly good family and that was what Mr. Abiodun’s parents did.
Sometime ago, when Segun who was suffering from sickle cell anemia was much younger, he suffered from high fever and was convulsing in the middle of the night; Mrs. Iyabo was frightened and was perplexed that night, she finally understood what Mr. Abiodun’s family implied by his disposition while sleeping when it took her an extremely long time to wake him from sleep and make him to understand and become conscious of what was happening to Segun. The extent of his sleeping could be considered to be a deformity. 
However, she was still careful and was walking quietly to where she hung her bag at the right corner of the window adjacent to the door. She hit her left toes on Funmi’s Sandals which she scattered on the floor. Funmi forgot to carry the sandals from the room yesterday after she finished discussing with Mr. Abiodun inside the room; Mrs. Iyabo had to tell her to go to the kitchen before she reluctantly left amused. It was always fun when she discussed with her jovial father. Her mother came in late in the evening from the church yesterday and drove her to go to the kitchen to prepare dinner only to be told by Segun that they had all eaten at a fast food joint and Mr. Abiodun amusingly said that they didn’t forget to bring home a package for her. They all knew that she wouldn’t eat as such were already disposed to eat it; they only wanted her confirmation. Mrs. Iyabo wouldn’t accept to eat from anywhere but her home. She prepared her own food and couldn’t eat to her satisfaction as those that claimed theywere satisfied even after eating her own share of the meal they brought for her, couldn’t resist the aroma from the food she prepared thus using the sermon of ‘family bond and love in sharing’ to intimidate her and deprive her of the food she cooked. 
Immediately she felt the Sandals on her leg she shook her head in disappointment. 
“My God, when will Funmi be matured enough to take proper care of her things? She is a lady for goodness sake.” She bent down to feel her left leg and was relieved to know that she didn’t incur any injury even though she felt slight pain on her toes. She removed the bag from where she hung it beside the wardrobe and dipped her hand inside to remove the wrist watch. She couldn’t tell what the time was as it was dark. She had to go back to where she lay down to search for the torch light on the bed; she raised the pillow but didn’t see the torch light under it, she had to stretch her hand to the side of the bed where Mr. Abiodun was lying before she found the torch light leaning on his body, she had fully recovered from drowsiness and completely regained herself and was ready to go to the kitchen to start preparing for the day. She turned on the torch light and saw that it was 5:15 am. She was a bit late and she had to be fast in carrying out her domestic chores in order to meet up.
She passed by Funmi’s room before going to the kitchen; she opened the door to her room and Funmi was rolling on the bed in a deep sleep. The weather was cool and conducive for good sleep. It must have rained heavily somewhere.
“You didn’t only take your dad’s face but also his lost and cold sleeping habit.” She said as she saw her on the bed deeply asleep and mildly snoring.
“Funmi!” She exclaimed. “Get up and go do the dishes.” Mrs. Iyabo didn’t wait to confirm whether she stood up before leaving the room.
She went to the kitchen and couldn’t use the burner on the cooker; there was no power supply from the electricity distributing company. Although she didn’t have to bother since everybody seemed to be accustomed to not having power supply even though they were prompt in paying their electricity bills. She was fulfilled to understand that the transformer in the estate didn’t blow up since there was no loud sound heard when the power supply was interrupted else they would have to collectively donate money to repair it or replace it in which they would still have to appreciate the electricity distributing company when they enabled power supply for few hours during the day and would consider it to be incredible and miraculous if there was light all through the day even though it was their rightful due. 
She opened the cupboard in the kitchen and looked to the left corner to carry the kettle from where she usually kept it but didn’t see it there. 
“This girl must have kept this kettle elsewhere after taking her bath; I keep telling her every time to be keeping utensils in their proper places.” She hissed. “Funmi!” she shouted. She began to look around in the kitchen to see if she would be able to find it; as she turned back in search of the kettle, she saw it under the kitchen sink. 
“Look at where she kept it; I wish there's somebody that I'll give this girl to train her with iron hands for me. She's becoming too lazy.” She bent down to carry it and was disgusted to see that soapy stains were all over the kettle. 
“Any mysterious dirty act beyond explanation can be exhibited by Funmi; where did this her dirtiness come from? Certainly not from me!” She complained bitterly. 
She carried the kettle and turned on the tap to remove the soapy stains from it. There were dirty dishes in the sink. She rinsed the kettle, and then filled it with water from the tap that's connected to the overhead tank situated on top of the building and to the borehole dug outside. Everybody had to bore individual borehole or rely on the generosity of their neighbours to get clean water. It was a dead end or a wishful dream that would never materialise to rely on the government to supply water through the channeled water pipes. Most people had removed the water pipes from their houses due to the rustiness.
She lit up the gas cooker and placed the kettle on it. Funmi was supposed be in the kitchen by now washing the dishes but she was still sleeping. Mrs. Iyabo after putting the kettle on the gas cooker hadn’t heard Funmi’s footsteps coming out yet. The dishes were still awfully scattered in the sink. 
“Funmi” she shouted angrily as she walked to her room; she was disappointed to see her still sleeping. She walked to where she was sleeping and angrily hit her on her back with her right palm. “Stand up!” She shouted and Funmi jumped up quickly having felt the pain from the hit. 
“Mummy” she exclaimed in astonishment, even in her unconsciousness, she understood that only her mother had the tendency to do that. She felt the pain from the hit before realizing herself. She massaged her eyes with her right hand and wanted to stretch her hands to resuscitate her joints but her mother shouted. 
“Go to the kitchen and wash the plates.” Mrs. Iyabo was impatient and shouted angrily. 
Funmi stood up and was reluctantly walking to the kitchen. She shuffled and was supporting herself by placing her right hand on the wall as she moved.
“Have you seen me today?” Her mother asked as she was going.
“Good Morning Mummy.” She understood what the mother implied.  She had the obligation to greet her mother before proceeding for any morning chores and she forgot due to her drowsiness.
“I don’t know when you'll realize that you’re a lady; ladies don’t have to be lazy especially when handling kitchen utensils in the house. You keep kitchen utensils anywhere you want and leave them there; there’s no excuse whatsoever to give to warrant your nonchalant and dirty behaviours. The kettle you got hot water from yesterday to take your bath was left under the sink unkempt with soapy stains all over it. If it were in those days, you're overdue for marriage.” She was disappointed and quarrelling. “When do you want to develop some sense of responsibility; is it in your husband’s house?”
Mr. Abiodun who came out to ease himself was disappointed to see Mrs. Iyabo quarrelling this early hour of the morning. 
“Is it not too early to raise your voice?” He said calmly and in a low tone. “You don’t have to wake our neighbours before we realize that you're admonishing somebody. You can tell her calmly and she’ll pick the correction and do what you want her to do.” 
“How long will I correct her? She is already in SS3 and you expect me to bear with her when she is lazy; is she still a kid?”
Mr. Abiodun presumed that her questions were rhetorical. He walked to Funmi who was standing at the entrance to the kitchen. 
“Hope you slept well my sweetie pie?” He asked with a great sense of humor. Funmi didn’t answer; she was frowning and wore a sad face. 
“You're the one spoiling this girl.” Mrs. Iyabo walked away disappointed.
“Leave her for me; I don’t have another one and I wouldn’t prefer another.” He said to cheer her up. “It's too early to be sad; remember that you owe it to yourself to wake up looking bright and delightful and you shouldn’t let anybody take that away from you; not even your mother.” He whispered. “Let me see you expose that charming smile of yours that reminds me of your grandmother.”  
Funmi was still quiet and moody.
Mrs. Iyabo came out of the bedroom where she spent some minutes inspecting the suit she would wear to the office today. She was amazed to see Funmi still standing with her father at the door to the kitchen. 
“You're making this girl to grow horns and become lazy day by day; I won’t tolerate such despicable habit. She's supposed to go to school and she hasn’t washed the dishes. Is she expecting me to go and do it?” She sighed deeply and grimaced. “Funmi, I shouldn’t come and meet you standing there.” She began to walk towards them.
“Funmi, hasn’t said she won’t wash the dishes; or have you said you won’t wash the dishes?” Mr. Abiodun said amusingly. 
Funmi definitely wouldn’t want her mother to meet her standing there; she understood that her father couldn’t protect her from her mother’s terror when she became angry. She slipped quickly from her father’s hand and went inside the kitchen. 
“You don’t have to make these children to be scared of you like one gigantic masquerade terrorizing the life out of them.”
“They are my children and I know the best way to handle them; Funmi is a lady and she shouldn’t be allowed to adopt bad characters. We ought to nip it in the bud before it gets out of hand. You're not helping her by petting her.”
“The world has gone beyond this cruel treatment called discipline; she mustn’t be afraid and frightened before she does the right thing. She can do it happily and joyously. There are better ways to go about correcting her.”
“Isn’t she sensible enough to observe the way I do things in this house? Look at the time I wake up every day, I would have to sweep the house every morning and prepare breakfast and lunch for them. Are you telling me that I should kneel down and beg Funmi to wash the dishes again? If she can’t use her initiative to understand her responsibilities, I shouldn’t be the one to condone that. If you spare the rod, you spoil the child.”
“I haven’t denied that, have I? But she is so much afraid of you. You're her mother and she should be more comfortable around you.”  
“I’m supposed to prepare breakfast and lunch before going to work and time is already against me except you tell me that you don’t want to eat breakfast before leaving this house today.” She began to walk to the kitchen.
Mr. Abiodun shook his head smiling as he went to the toilet to ease himself.
CHAPTER TWO
There was no teacher in the class and the class was very noisy; every student was busy chatting away and none would attempt to read. It was indeed fun without a teacher in the class. Students were hopping from one seat to another and some who had the insensitive temperament to sleep despite the loud nature of the noise and the drumming and banging of desks were sleeping. The class representative had threatened to write the names of noise makers severally after appealing to them to stop making noise even though he was among those making noise. 
“You guys are daring me! This will be the last warning!” Dolapo the class monitor stood up and resounded his warning, yet the students wouldn’t stop chatting away and gossiping amusingly. They were laughing at him rather than getting scared. This wasn’t the reaction he expected.
“Is that empty drum still blabbing?” Tunde was referring to Dalopo as he was excitedly writing on the blackboard. 
“He must have finished making noise; why won’t he say ‘stop making noise’.” Tope mimicked him squeezing his face to resemble a bull dog and making a ‘kiss squeak’ noise with his mouth to resemble an Orangutan which made the class to laugh at the class monitor. 
“Tope, now you're using your wide mouth like a grunting pig to speak, isn’t it? You that always looks pathetic like a fowl beaten by rain and clueless like a new born lamb.”
“Not even a full blown sheep that is madly foolish already.” Tolu laughed.
Dolapo continued. “And shouting helplessly like drowning imbecile in a Jacuzzi when Mr. Rasheed is flogging the remaining demon out of you, have the liver to mimic me isn’t it?”  
“Dolapo is really unfair to you bro.” Tunde wrapped his arm across Tope’s shoulder as if he was sympathizing with him and sighed deeply. Tope almost believed him before he said “why would Dolapo relegate you so low to the background to make us believe that you'll probably drown in a Jacuzzi when left all alone to take your bath? This guy is definitely calling you a toddler.” Tunde spoke in a calm and consoling tone even though he was actually mocking him. 
The students that saw them were amused as they heard Tunde.
“Don’t mind them; I don’t know what is amusing them and making them to laugh. It's certainly not what I've said; believe me, I'm not implying anything. They're just trying to create a scene.” Tunde grimaced and attempted to act ignorantly.
“You’ve seen a clown, haven’t you?” Tope understood what Tunde was doing. “Get your contaminated and measles garnished with leprosy prone arm off my neck before you infect me with something more deadly than measles or even leprosy. I'm yet to be convinced that epilepsy isn’t in your DNA until proven otherwise. There's more to this your instability than meets the eye.” 
The students listening to them couldn’t help laughing.
“Isn’t that better than being unfair to humanity and to the class? You that your grey coloured fart has left an indelible stench in this class;” Tunde turned to the class as if he wanted to address the class. “Sometime back, I couldn’t help but wonder after withdrawing my bright and intelligent mind into productive endeavour which was more or less creative thinking, I wanted to unravel the mystery behind this horrible and killing malodorous smell always perceived and tolerated by the good people of this noble class. To my dismay, I realized one day when sitting behind Tope that this ungodly and heathen smell which had expelled all the good fortune from this class has been stored and freely released from Tope’s buttock. Imagine the horror that is yet to befall on us all as he's still fully loaded with deposits of rotting food.” 
The classroom was situated not far from the sewage tank as such the smell that emitted from the sewage tank affected the class. The students knew this but still laughed at Tope seeing the gesture and the charisma in which Tunde spoke.  
“Are you really sure that the stench came from me alone? Would you have me tell these distinguish colleagues of ours that the last time you had your teeth brushed was after your mother stopped bathing you or you would want me to still keep our little secret? My noble classmates, please decide our fate on this issue, what smell can compare to the stench that comes out of a gutter that has never felt the fluid of toothpaste for approximately 10 years now? Maybe, he'll tell us that his mother still baths him, which will not surprise me at all.” Tope said.
“Tunde, does your mother still bath you?” Simbi asked and everybody looked at Tunde expecting him to answer the question.
“Come on, you guys are not expecting me to answer that question, are you? If you must know my mother stopped bathing me the day she gave birth to me.” Tunde was being sarcastic and everybody laughed.
“That hasn’t changed the fact that somebody else has been bathing you until now, has it?” Dolapo said laughing.
“Tunde, so it’s not only your mother that has been bathing you; some nanny has also been carrying the burden.” Tope lowered his tone as he drew closer to Tunde. “That's horrible and immature; it implies that a spoilt kindergarten pupil who has been declared missing and his name inscribed on a poster all over the town in search of him has been found. Glory to God in the Highest! I pray there's a price attached when I return you to your Momma. Momma’s boy!” Tope laughed. 
“My God, so there's a fugitive in this class who is Momma’s boy?” Dolapo sounded amazed as he looked at Tunde. 
“Tope you've always been known to be nonsensical; however, permit me today to award you an additional title of being the most renowned foolish guy in the history of foolishness.” 
Everybody laughed uncontrollably; they were fortunate that the school members of staff were in a meeting and they couldn’t hear a thing from their office due to the distance.
“But have you guys noticed that Tunde hasn’t told us whether his mother still baths him or not?” Dolapo gushed.
“Dolapo too has participated evenly in sustaining the infamous stench in this class; what good can come out of an Afro steadily maintained around Dolapo’s armpit. I can’t help but wonder how Cecilia usually manages to sit comfortably around him.” Tope who had been looking for an opportunity to attack Dolapo got him.
“Perhaps she is wearing an invisible oxygen mask on her nose else where I'm standing, I'm almost suffocating and struggling with asthma for want of uncontaminated air; the pungent smell emanating from around Dolapo is killing me! Bro what do you have to say about Dolapo finding or employing somebody to be bathing him.” Tunde too attacked Dolapo.
Dolapo was patiently waiting for them. Cecilia, as well as some members of the class who were amused with their activities, were laughing.
“Maybe, you'll be generous enough to lend your nanny to him to teach him how to bath appropriately; I know you'll be inconvenienced and will barely survive but relieving your nanny for two days and leaving you to bath on your own won’t do you much harm, would it?”  Tope beseeched.
Tunde looked up as if he was trying to weigh the options and was placed in a tight corner thus having to make a major decision in his life. “I think I can spare my nanny for two days, but only for two days and nothing more.” 
Tunde’s gesture was hilarious and members of the class were indeed excited as they heard him.
“Who would want your nanny?” Dolapo squeezed his face in disapproval and disgust. “I would prefer to enter a washing machine and be washed than to employ the service of your nanny. I’m already feeling sick and nauseated to imagine being bathed by anybody worst still your nanny. If I'm looking for the best spot to scream for being tormented by your nanny syndrome and demoniac, now is the time. Get behind me Satan!” 
“To be candid and call a spade its original and true name,” Tope was whistling as he rambled close to Tunde as if inspecting him. “Bro, this guy has finally got the true face of Satan.”
“Interesting, I'm impressed,” Tunde spoke in a low tone looking fascinated. “If there's a verse in the bible where Satan took two forms, then I pity the members of this class; I solemnly declare doom upon everybody since this miscreant accusing me of having a face and figure of Satan looks identical to the accused. You guys would have to contain one horrible creature with two faces.”
“What a disaster! I'm sanctified by the blood of the lamb and there will be no stunt pulled that will torment me.” Dolapo laughed. 
“These boys are stupid and jobless. Dolapo, you're the class monitor yet you're always the one championing the noise.” Kolawole said as he walked out of the class to urinate in the school toilet. 
“There’s no part of my conscience that pricks me and would accuse me of being the cause of Pappy’s frustration; if Pappy genuinely reads as he claims, why has he got a permanent appearance in SSCE exams?” Dolapo asked as he noticed that Kolawole had gone beyond hearing distance. 
“He’s a crowned SSCE king; that title is uncontested and undisputed.” Tunde laughed.
“You don’t need to bribe and campaign for it as it comes with merit. Long live Pappy’s reign in SSCE kingdom!” Dolapo mocked Kolawole and everybody laughed.  
Tunde and Tope were twins and nothing anybody would say in the class that made them angry; they usually made the class lively and you would be amused whenever it wasn’t you that they ridiculed. Dolapo the class leader was also a noise maker and every reasonable member of the class had complained about his noise making with the twins. 
Tope looked at his wrist watch when Kolawole came inside the class and he noticed that it was few minutes to 2:00 pm. “Dolapo, it won’t be out of place if you should write the names of noise makers right now; I’ve carefully observed the members of this class and will prove beyond reasonable doubt that they're bunch of noise makers put together thus you’ll be failing in your civic duty and responsibility as a class representative if those ranting are not punished for breaking the school rules and regulations by disturbing the peace and quietness of the class.” He lowered his tone. “I’m only a good citizen making an observation.”
“Good for nothing nomenclatures;” Kolawole hissed as he passed them to his seat.
“And what moral obligation do you have to intimate me about the school rules and regulations when you're the beginning and the end, source and summit, head and tail, alpha and omega, first and last and the embodiment of noise making in the entire school?” Dolapo said.
“I would say I'm humbled and honoured at the same time with the rich and noble portfolio, but we should give honour to whom it is due. I'm nothing compared to Tunde when it comes to noise making.”
“Why are you laying false accusation on me?” He acted as if he was surprised. “I'm here and not in the moon for crying out loud; I haven’t varnished into thin air, look at me visibly standing before you Tope. I can’t be condemned when journalists and reporters haven't been called noise makers at least none that I know of. What I do is more or less enlightenment which is administered none stop: free of charge; aren’t you guys privileged?”
“Don’t deceive yourself.” Deborah said.
“Then what stops you from delivering this useful information when a teacher is in the class.” Chide asked.
“Who is talking? I'm hearing voices yet I haven’t seen anybody. Could that be a headless man talking?” Tunde knew who spoke but wanted to tease him. Chide was the smallest boy in the class. “It’s you G-man.” He said as if he finally found the person talking after he had exhausted great time and energy searching for him.
“Are you telling me that G-man is too tiny that he could be hidden in the air?” Tope asked Tunde mocking Chide.
“Those are your words but I won’t doubt it since it can be one of the numerous gifts Chide has for being small. You guys don’t know that being small is a divine gift, do you? Let me take the liberty to enlighten you and be later paid for this top secret and classified information. When you're like Chide, you'll cut cost a lot, there'll be little or no wastage. Everything you purchase will be half the actual price; you'll make money and have a fat account even when Chide doesn’t seem to have a penny. Poor Chide, if you should ransack him hoping to find money from his pocket, you'll only find sand coming out.” Tunde would have loved to freely compare Chide with the biggest boy in the class but was afraid. He wished Kolawole wasn’t in the class. “My basic and fundamental human rights have been infringed. I kind of feel threatened. I’ve been abused since I’m afraid of being oppressed.” 
“Are you telling us that the presence of an imaginary muscular figure inside your head has denied you your inalienable fundamental right of expression and cogent comparison?” Tope asked.
“You’ve seen the truth for what it truly is. That’s what I'm talking about bro!” Tunde exclaimed.
“Can you give this honorable class a taste and description of this monster inside your head that made you to withhold useful information thus denying us genuine knowledge?" Tope understood where his brother was going.
“This monster is like the dare devil; his horns have disappeared to reappear when he's done with any learning. If you’ve come in contact with him you'll see the hairiness of Chimpanzee and a true replica of an Ape although he looks fearful and ugly like a buffalo but can’t bite; not to forget, he's as wild as a lion after dining with his master Lucifer himself. Needless to say that he's intimidated by a handsome and gorgeously looking guy like I myself.” He took a deep breath and looked at Kolawole. Kolawole was glancing at his book. “You guys have probably seen this imaginary monster.” He quickly pointed at Kolawole and dropped his hand before Kolawole would notice that someone was pointing a finger at him.
Everybody was laughing; they came to understand the point he's trying to make. They later knew he's referring to Kolawole. 
“Bet the devil and point at this monster again if you count yourself a true man.” Dolapo said.
“Don’t think that my brother is a weakling; Tunde, don’t disappoint me this time.” Tope went close to Tunde as he attempted to appeal to him.
Kolawole seemed to have understood what was going on. The students were laughing and looking at him. He didn’t read anymore though was still staring at the opened textbook and was waiting for Tunde to call his name or the nickname attributed to him. Tunde wouldn’t act a fool despite persuasions from Tope and Dolapo.
“You guys are pulling my legs, aren’t you? You want me to meet my end in the hands of this fierce and scary monster who is no other person but a figment of my imagination.” Tunde said smiling.
“This guy is not a true son of my father!” Tope exclaimed. “I wish I were the person granted this gift of imagination. I would have pointed at the person without fret; after all, it’s a gift from God.”
“It’s no gift from God; even though it's a gift from God you can be Aaron to his Moses and be his spoke man. So let me hear you say something.”  Dolapo said.
“I don’t remember Joshua to be a coward either and he's neither a spoke man nor a prophet but a leader; so as the class leader you can as well be delegated to tell us who this imaginary monster is.” Tope said. 
“Let’s give the class monitor a standing ovation as he'll point out who this person in my head is.” Tunde said.
None of them would dare call Kolawole’s name as the monster; they were the three nuisances in the class even though Dolapo was the class leader. They were all sitting on top of the desks despite being prohibited by the school authority. They were good at entertaining the class when there was no teacher in the class. 
The school bell rang indicating school closing. Everybody in the class was excited and those that hadn’t packed their books inside their bags started packing up. Funmi didn’t seem to hear the bell; her head was still on her desk as she continued to sleep soundly; the commotion in the class and the noise spearheaded by the twins didn’t seem to disturb her. 
Tope looked towards her corner and was amazed to see Funmi still sleeping; her seat mate was still sitting at the front enjoying the campaign and noise championed by the twins. Nobody would believe that a member of the class could possibly sleep when such noisy activity was going on. They didn’t really pay attention to her before now; they must have looked at her corner at a glance but were not really conscious that she could be sleeping.  
Tope began to flit towards Funmi’s direction; he could still walk normally and even jump while moving towards her but he wanted to use the unprecedented posture to attract attention, to create a scene and make his classmates wait in suspense to see what his intention was and what he wanted to achieve.
As he approached Funmi, he stooped low. Everybody was still watching. He bent his head and focused his mouth close to Funmi’s ear. Funmi was still deeply asleep and wasn’t sensitive to any sound. 
“Bam!” He snapped.
The sound that came out of his mouth was very loud and it resounded inside Funmi’s eardrum. She jumped up quickly in an involuntary reaction to Tope’s snapping; she was frightened and her heart began to beat fast thus overwhelmed with fear. She began to perspire profusely and everybody in the class burst into laughter.
“That's unfair now.” Tunde said in mockery from where he was standing.
“I'll have to look for this terrible and unforgiving tsetse fly that has left you in this desolate state.” He shook his head. “What a footprint!”
“Not if the tsetse fly is her mother.” Deborah blurted laughing and Funmi looked at her in disapproval.
“What!” Everybody in the class exclaimed. 
“Her mother! Is that possible?” Tunde sounded perplexed. They were only trying to make it funny.
“No! No! No!” Tope said pretending to sympathize with her. “Would you tell me that your mother has cast a spell on you to have caused you to be sleeping like this?” He said in a low tone.
“My brother has invariably become prince charming to have woken sleeping beauty up.” Tunde laughed. “Unfortunately the Nigerian version would be that he tormented and frightened her from her slumber by shouting to explode her eardrum rather than a warm reassuring kiss. Everything in Nigeria comes hard!”
“Strictly made in Nigeria version;” Dolapo said.
“Stop being unfair to their love story;” Deborah said laughing.
“Wait! Guys, what are you insinuating?” Tope sounded amazed. 
Funmi shook her head in disapproval; she was indeed embarrassed and was packing her books in preparation to leave the class. 
“You'll understand only if you're thinking what I'm thinking.” Tunde said.
“Okay.” He nodded as if he understood what Tunde implied. However, he realized that Tunde could be saying otherwise. “Wait for a second, what are you thinking Tunde?” He wanted Tundeto unravel what he had conceived in his mind against him else he would persistently demand answers.
Those still present in the class laughed in amazement seeing how Tunde played over his brother. 
“You’ve been fooled!” Dolapo laughed. “Why did you initially affirm what your brother said? Definitely, you can be successfully bargained for and sold without knowing.”
“Yet he wouldn’t accept that I'm always a step ahead of him.” Tunde gushed.
“He's not thinking of anything beyond insinuating that Funmi admires me.” Tope looked at his brother to see if what he said was really what he's thinking. 
Tunde understood his brother’s temperament and knew that he would want to get the affirmation for his guesses from his countenance thus he wore an unappealing face in order to frustrate Tope the more. Tope really fell for his pranks and was still disturbed.
Funmi raised her head in disgust as she dropped the book she held on her hand inside her bag. “Who will fancy a clown and a dirty boy like you? I'm suffocating please; your breath stinks and it’s choking me. Excuse me let me pack my books if you don’t mind.” Funmi raved being already disappointed.
“Tope, would you allow such defiant and scornful remark?” Tunde started jumping up and demonstrating, exhibiting the gestures of a world heavy weight boxer threatening to pounce on a contending opponent. 
“There goes Mark Tyson untamed; or can I say Mohammad Ali?” Dolapo jabbered.
“Bro, if you're looking for the best time to strike somebody, now is the exact time. What!” Tunde exclaimed. “Why would she disrespect you like that?” 
“She wouldn’t be born to speak to me like that; I’d have given her a new identity if I'm in your position Tope. My fist would have transformed her jaw before now.” Dolapo gushed. 
“You guys want to lure me into another crime again and leave me to suffer the consequences, isn’t it?” Tope was still perplexed. “Let’s not deviate, please tell me what you're thinking about now.” Tope wasn’t really concerned aboutFunmi’s remark; he was rather becoming impatient to understand what his brother was thinking about.
“Twins can be funny; Are you still disturbed with what Tunde said? He hasn’t thought of anything outside the scene that happened. So why bother yourself.” Deborah said.
Tope looked at his brother’s face and noticed that his brother still wore that suspicious face. “I don’t like that face. There's still something hidden that Tunde isn't telling me.”
Tunde began to laugh as he saw the frustration on his brother’s face. “I'm the only one that can always get you begging on your kneels; knowledge is power, and there's no other key but information.”
“Stop priding yourself over your brother who is already a clown; both of you are clowns,” Kolawole said as he was leaving the class. They wouldn’t dare challenge him; Kolawole would bully them as such they didn’t necessarily have to reply him. 
“I'm not thinking of anything; it’s a pleasure seeing you on yourkneels begging to know what I’m thinking.” Tunde prattled.
CHAPTER THREE
Most of the class members had already left the class; Tunde, Tope and Dolapo had to go to their seats and pack their books into their bags before leaving the class. Funmi and Deborah finished and walked out of the class. Funmi was quiet while she walked home with Deborah. Nothing Deborah said amused her; Funmi was looking moody and unhappy. Deborah noticed her countenance.
“Are you still angry over what Tope did? You should've understood before now that those boys are troublesome.”
Funmi was still quiet and didn’t respond.
“You’ve been with them long enough that any prank they play shouldn’t have gotten into you; Even Chide that cried when they made caricatures of him while we were in junior class has come to accommodate them. He's accepted the name ‘ground man’. These guys derive pleasure when they make you unhappy, they feed on your fears and find amusement when you show the slightest chance of disapproval; however, when you pay no heed to their mockeries or show no sign of concern, they won’t persist in mocking you since it won’t seem fun in the long run. Become part of the caricature; laugh about it and no matter the extent it hurts you, pretend to be amused, only then will you observe that they would have to stop. They would discover that they've not achieved their objectives as such there would be no need to try or continue.”
Funmi looked at her still frowning. “But you shouldn’t have made a mockery of my mother.”
“I'm sorry; I didn’t intend to offend you. I only wanted to clear the air and make them understand that you weren’t bitten by any insect.”
“But you should have used another name other than my mother. You're the only one that knows that I wake up very early at home around 5:00 am to wash plates.”
“I'm sorry; I didn’t mean to offend you.”
They walked quietly for a while. Funmi took a deep breath. 
“Our final examination is right at the corner and I haven’t covered thirty percent of my syllables. These boys in our class wouldn’t allow us to study when there's no teacher in the class.” Funmi grumbled as they continued walking home.
“The best thing you’ll have to do is to study at home maybe in the night when you’ve gotten the strength else this SSCE examination will overwhelm us still unprepared if we keep thinking that there's still time left.”
“Studying can be tough and boring and the moment I sit down atthe dining table to study, that would be the moment I would feel like sleeping and my mother would wake me up with a dirty and resounding slap that'd remove the zeal to sleep and the desire to read. Nothing would be appealing to me at such moments.”
“Your mother can be very tough, although she still means well for you.”
“Why would you say that?”
“You stay awake and finish a complete series and movie, don't you?”
“But that's nothing to do with reading and my mother’s coercion.” 
“Of course, she’s disappointed, that you're jeopardizing your future and devoting your time to something that wouldn’t last at the expense of your studies. When do you usually go to study?”
“Around 10:00 o’clock pm when I must have finished watching the trending Mexican and Indian TV series; my father didn’t usually complain, the problem comes when my mother returns back from work. If I greet her, the first thing that'd come out of her mouth would be ‘have you done the dishes? Why is this house looking unkempt? Don’t you know you're a lady and you ought to be neat?’ And if I've done all these things, the next statement that'd come out of her mouth would be: ‘Come on turn off that television and go read your books.’ She's been harassing me; I prefer my father being around than my mother. Thank God she stays in the bank often.” 
“Is that the only thing that makes you complain bitterly about your mother?” Deborah shook her head. “Then your mother is a saint when it comes to my parents. I don’t need to tell you before you know that we don’t watch television when school is in session; you’ve been coming to my house and have been seeing how boring the house has been. The electronic gadgets in my house are more or less a mirage. My Dad always emphasizes that Knowledge is a gift to humanity and should be properly acquired through hard work. And what he meant by this hard work is to read even when you're tired and the book becomes the dreaded devil that torments the hell out of you. He insisted that the more knowledge one acquires at the initial stage of one’s life will someday be the weapon that'll shield one from the hostile reality of life; nothing unprecedented can override you, you’ll be confident and competent and will be pleased with yourself even if you don’t have much but you’ve gotten all. I'm mandated to read five hours every day, and I would have to lie to my father often times to meet the standard.”
“But all work and no play isn’t encouraged; won’t you go insane?”
 “My Dad would say that it's a lazy man’s theory to excuse himself from achieving greatness. He would challenge me to point out one person in history that had ever gone insane from consistent studies and if I could, he would point at ten people that'd achieved greatness from being studious. The only fun we have is to watch News TV stations. We watch movies only on weekends. He's always told me that the image portrayed in movies is often times far from what is really obtainable in reality; however, magazines are more authentic.”
“My Dad thinks the contrary; he believes that watching creative movies sharpens the mind into productive thinking because it exposes you to possibilities. Movies make you understand that there're no boundaries or barriers towards achieving your wildest dreams.”
“But how will you achieve it when your time is wasted in unattainable imaginations the movies had made you seen? And even though your horizon has been opened to the possibilities, you're not equipped. You'll rather be frustrated since you’ve discovered your potentials and possibilities but can’t achieve it. My Dad would rather say that the time exhausted in watching these exposing movies when invested in studies and researches, you'll become the possibilities. Are you not surprised that I usually come to your house? Often times I use the television when my dad is not around.”
“I can’t stay in your house for even a second.”
“The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence. You'll only appreciate the privilege you have when you listen to another person's story. Any time you complain about your mother, I keep telling you that your mother is kind. My mother always leaves us to use our initiative; she would want us to use our discretion to do the right thing.”
“That one is better.”
“Seriously, she shouldn’t come to the house and see things littered around the house and everywhere looking unkempt; she'd punish me for being insensitive and have me clean the house as if it were a weekend. I don’t think any responsible parent would allow her children to be insensitive without impacting some fundamental discipline in them.”
“I'm tired of waking up every morning to wash plates.”
“But you can as well wash it in the night before you go to bed or immediately you finish cooking, you wash everything up and when everybody finishes eating, you quickly wash everything to save yourself the stress of waking up early in the morning to wash. My Mum always says that no parent would wish evil for her children; parents would always give the best they can afford except the parent is a psychopath. Maybe we have to learn to trust our parents and believe more in them to mean well for us; they would always be proud to see that we're in charge and can account for things around us; that we're sensitive to our surroundings and responsible.”
“Although my Mum has been telling me to wash the dishes in the night before going to sleep but I'm always lazy to stand when I finish eating; maybe I'll try it.”
“You'll be better and will sleep very well if you consider washing it in the night. My mother would always have me wash all the dishes immediately we finished eating and I wouldn’t dare wear a long face. She is an advocate of working and smiling thus our disposition to work matters.”
Funmi reached her junction and had to divert to the street leading to her house. “I'll try and be washing the dishes in the night and if I'd do that, I'll be waking up by 6:30 am.” 
“But you'll come late to school and your mother may as well tell you to sweep the house since you'll no longer be washing the dishes in the morning so you may still be waking early.”
“I didn’t think of that; truly you can hardly satisfy human beings and the last time I checked my Mum is one. I'll maintain my status quo.”
“Sweeping won’t take long; it's best you wake up to sweep the house than wash the plates.” She smiled. “I would have to welcome you to my technique eventually, it's passed the test of time; when you wake up, you can pretend to be sweeping whereas you're doing some shabby work. Mothers don’t want to see their female children appearing to be lazy and insensitive; my Mum would say ‘you ought to have a sense of responsibility and diligence if you'd want to be happily married’. They want you to bet the world and take on it; they seem to be fulfilled whenever they see you up and doing thus satisfying them is close to being impossible even though deep within them they're satisfied. So you ought to act the script and the tough mother you had yesterday will become the happy mother you’ll have today and forever. I don’t need to tell you that an unhappy mother means war in the battle field called home.”
“I’ve got an antidote for my mother’s nagging now; I’ll go for the shabby style.”
“Babe, you’re truly lazy;” Deborah teased her.
“Is my Mum here with me that I haven’t noticed?” Funmi was being sarcastic.
“You don’t want me to be your Mum, do you? However, if I were your Mum, I’d tell you that I’m making you to understand the world for what it truly is.”
“You talk as if you were my mother already!” Funmi laughed
“You can say that again. I'll be going home now before my mother starts looking for me.”
“We'll meet in school tomorrow; please don’t forget to come to school early.”
“Am I the gateman that I'd have to come early?” Deborah was trying to be sarcastic.
“Why are you talking like this? I want to copy your mathematics assignment before the mathematics teacher comes; you know we have him during the first period.”
“I don’t really understand that simultaneous equation and word problem; that man would just play over it as if he didn’t really understand it. He would solve the simplest ones and give us the hardest ones to solve.”   
“You're even lucky that you’ve understood the simpler ones; I haven’t gotten anything in Mathematics since Mr. Ola left us for another school. Mr. Rotimi doesn’t know how to teach.”
“Why do you think Dolapo gave him the name ‘giver of sleep’? Anytime he enters the class Tope would always say ‘in your prayers, ask God to make time fly’ which implies that as you sleep during his lesson ask God to make his period finish unnoticed.”
They both laughed. “Please any how you solve it, bring it early to school for me to copy. After all, in the kingdom of blind men, one eyed man is a king; let’s use girls in this case.”
“I’m obliged and honoured to have you partake in my confusion.”
“You speak as if I have an alternative elsewhere. Let me save the thank you until I see the scores.”
“Suit yourself, we’ve stood here for long; see you tomorrow.”
Funmi diverted to her close while Deborah continued with the straight lane. 
CHAPTER FOUR
Everybody in the class was anxiously looking for where to copy the mathematics assignment from; the Mathematics teacher would be coming to the class anytime soon and it was a prayer answered for them as he had delayed until now; he was usually prompt to come to class. The students were already disgusted with his punctuality and they wished he would fall sick at times and not come to school. The assignment he gave was a puzzle and it would take a bright and committed student to answer the word problem satisfactorily. Most of them in the class had already made up their minds to come to school and copy from their classmates. The students were moving from one seat to another seat comparing answers and making corrections; they were more or less using their intuition to decide which of the solutions could be close to being correct.
“Are you really sure that this your work is correct?” Tunde asked Chide.
“Beggars can't be choosers; so copy what you see and stop asking unnecessary questions that may distract me from copying accurately.” Tope told Tunde.
“My own begging is prestigious; I beg with swag as in perspective begging.”
“What choice do you have?” Funmi who was amused by their discussion asked.
“I'll copy from another person; there are a lot of answers and I'm at liberty to compare and contrast before choosing which one to copy. Chide should count himself lucky to have me do the same work with him.” Tunde said.
“Be there and be deceiving yourself. Mr. Rotimi is coming!” Dolapo exclaimed and everybody became confused; they hadn’t finished copying from those that had finished. They were tempted to believe Dolapo even though they knew that Dolapo was sitting in the class and there was no probability to see Mr. Rotimi coming to the class from the corner where he sat. Dolapo knew that they were anxious and incapable of coherent and critical evaluation as such he could succeed in playing with their emotions. 
“You’re very stupid Dolapo!” Kolawole snarled. He almost lost his mind when he heard Dolapo’s statement; he hadn’t finished copying from Amina. 
Dolapo ignored Kolawole and was laughing. “What do you guys really do at home that you didn’t finish your assignment before coming to school?” Dolapo gushed.
“If finishing the assignment at home would have been the issue, it wouldn’t have been any issue in the first place; the problem is: knowing where to begin from. The more I read the question at home the more confused I became.” Cecilia said.
“You're even lucky that it's possible for you to understand before you became confused when you're reading it; it would have been a progress if I was only confused but I didn’t reach the point of confusion before I was lost.” Tunde said.
“Only if these crazy mathematicians knew that people are going to struggle like this in future, they’d have had a second thought and died with their inventions.” Tope grumbled. He had been perplexed and frustrated as he couldn’t find a solution to the assignment at home.
“I wish I was born when those men were about to bring about education, I would have lured them inside a camp and exploded them to die with their innovation. Education isn’t easy; look at how old men are being cajoled.” Tunde pointed at Kolawole.
Kolawole was busy trying to copy from Amina and had to put the book in front of him in order to write the exact thing.
“It's not easy for old men to come to school; look at Kolawole, he's still operating in the old ways of copying. He hasn’t realized that there're more innovative and stylish ways of copying like the one I'm applying which is the comparing and contrasting techniQUE.” Tunde said.
“You better copy from one person and know when you fail than copying from many people then wait anxiously hoping that you’ve done tremendously only to be told that your work is a mess. It's only God that'll help us in this man’s class.” Dolapo said.
“That man feels he's smart; he'll solve the straight forward questions and leave us to struggle with the delicate problems. What kind of curse is more than the one that you're copying the wrong thing and you're aware that you might be copying the wrong thing but there's little or nothing to do about it? The answer is there at the back of the textbook but the solution is where the problem lies.” Funmi said.
Tunde stood up as he finished copying from Chide; he stretched his arms by extending his hands. “Who is very sure that what he or she solved is correct? Please if you've been going to church and have been attentive to the preaching of Jesus Christ which is ‘do onto others what you want done to you’, kindly expose your work for us to compare; you would've sinned against this class if you hide your work and have been pretending not to do it only to submit later and get full scores. I tell you most solemnly: that scores you'll get will perish but this class will survive to torment you.” As he was talking, he was staring and pointing his finger at Wale, Yinka, and Adeleke; they were the ones that usually topped the class and they wouldn’t accept to expose their answers for others to copy. “I'm not speaking on my own accord; I'm speaking through the one who sent me.”
“That's the notable prophet speaking and woe to those who refuse to heed to his message; it would be better if you're not born. You would have to tie a huge rock on your head and jump into the Atlantic Ocean through Third Mainland Bridge than disobey the words of the prophet and deny this noble class vital information.” Tope ranted. 
“Those guys are like the Pharisees; you'd have to kill them before they'll open their work for you to copy their answers.” Dolapo grumbled. “If not for this man that teaches as if he's communing with some invisible village deities, we wouldn’t have been this confused.”
“My Dad usually says that such trait could be a symptom of madness; he usually talks to himself. Some would say that it's a sign of high IQ but what is strange is that he does it when he's teaching us; he would forget that he's teaching the class. Is that what Albert Einstein experienced too?”
“Tunde you are very funny! That man is not a good teacher; perhaps the economic situation of the country compelled him to come to the class to earn a living. I heard he studied engineering as such he should be working with a company and not teaching.” Funmi said.
“Does it mean that someday, one would have to teach?” Dolapo sounded surprised.
“Are you asking? If you'll go to the university then you'll have to teach during National Youth Service because the chances are slim to work in companies or other ministries. And I would have to underline ‘if you'll go to the University’; Dolapo you look too desperate to make money and you may take to driving Danfo bus after we graduate.” Those sitting around them and listening to them as they discussed laughed as Tope joked.
“You'll be the one to drive Danfo bus after graduation.” Dolapo rebuked him immediately.
“I don’t mean to offend you; is becoming a Danfo bus driver too ambitious? Maybe hawking will meet your expectation.” Tope prattled and stood up quickly as he ran out to escape Dolapo’s harassment. Everybody laughed.
“I just hope that this man will not come to the class today.” Chide muttered.
Mr. Rotimi entered the class immediately Chide finished speaking although he didn’t hear what he said. Chide spoke in a low tone. 
“Speak of the devil.” Funmi said as she saw Mr. Rotimi entered.
“We're so very dead; Tope please give me poison to drink.” Tunde mumbled.
“Even with poison, your corpse can’t withstand the boring nature of this class; your soul would have to tell your body not to abandon him in this torture but to come back to life and walk out of the class.” Tope joked.
Those sitting around them heard what they said and began laughing.
“What is the cause of the laughter?” Mr. Rotimi asked and the students were quiet staring at him. 
They reluctantly stood up and drawled as they greeted him. He replied their greetings and noticed that they seemed tired and unwilling. 
“It’s too early to be tired; you guys should do some body exercises to brighten yourselves up. Stand up for few seconds.” Mr. Rotimi went to the board to write the subject name and the date.
“Only if this man knows what we really want.” Tunde muttered.
“I'd believe that everybody completed the assignment.” He snapped as he turned back after he had written on the blackboard.
“Won’t this man forget anything?” Tunde muttered.
“How was the assignment; was it tough?” Mr. Rotimi asked.
“Is this man seriously asking this question?” Tope muttered before he raised his hands. 
Mr. Rotimi gave him consent to answer the question. 
“It's interesting.” Tope gushed and everybody in the class who understood that he was beingsarcastic laughed. Poor Mr. Rotimi, he didn’t understand what Tope meant. He was happy that the students found the assignment interesting which probably indicated that they were getting along with his class.
“Does this man really believe what Tope said?” Dolapo muttered as he raised his hand up. “Excuse me, sir.” He said. 
“Okay.” Mr. Rotimi permitted Dolapo to stand up.
“Sir, I don’t really understand the word problem; I wish to appeal that you shouldn’t record it as part of our assessment test and we'll be grateful if you don’t collect it at all.”
“I didn’t know that your father could afford giving you this good home training; where has this trait been hiding.” Tunde muttered. 
“Is there any other person saying something?” Mr. Rotimi seemed to have heard Tunde’s voice.
“No Sir.” Tunde said.
“Dolapo, Talk for yourself.” Wale said.
“Look at this nincompoop; I’ve been telling you guys to throw this self-centered idiot through the window so that he'd break his head before now but you wouldn’t accept my prophecy.” Tunde muttered.
“People just can’t see what you see my noble prophet; pray that our eyes be opened wide to see what that Malian truly is.” Tope usually insinuated that Wale had Malian’s ancestral lineage. Dolapo nicknamed him ‘Charky’ which was an abbreviation for ‘charcoal’ saying that he was so dark in complexion that he could stain his uniform. 
“We don’t cooperate in this class at all; we’ve been saying that we have to be speaking with one voice.” Dolapo sputtered. 
“Stop the noise!” Mr. Rotimi exclaimed. “Why are you ranting; have I said I won’t solve it? Don’t worry I'm going to solve the question and don’t hesitate to notify me at any point you become confused. Before I forget, Dolapo collect the notebooks for your assignment so that nobody would have to change what he or she has written; what's written is written.”
“As if somebody cares.”Tunde muttered.
Dolapo collected all the notebooks even though there was a little commotion as Kolawole was hesitating to give him his notebook. Dolapo pretended to attempt to call Mr. Rotimi’s attention before Kolawole reluctantly gave him his notebook.
“What has Kolawole been doing? He has been copying from Amina since we came yet he hasn’t finished.” Chide was amazed.
“Do you call that old man normal?” Tunde asked rhetorically in amusement.
“Stop making noise.” Mr. Rotimi turned to the blackboard and began to write the question on the blackboard.
“This is where the time bomb explodes. No snoring please else we would be exposed.” Tope snarled.
He was fortunate that Mr. Rotimi concentrated on solving the question he wrote on the chalkboard and wasn’t conscious of Tope’s remark. Mr. Rotimi began to solve the word problem and the students were just staring at him as he was breaking down the problem into steps to achieve the solution; “do you understand?” He said intermittently as he was solving the problem.
Some of the students were saying “yes” to keep his eyes fixed on the blackboard.  
“From the first step, we're busted!” Tope exclaimed. “Chide, who solved the assignment for you?” Tope muttered.
“My elder brother.” Chide drawled
“Your elder brother, you said? And we couldn’t even get the first step?” Tunde sputtered.
“Which school is he going to?” Dolapo beseeched.
“He hasn’t got admission to the university yet.”
“Why?”
“He has written jamb for the fifth time now and he couldn’t get the cut-off mark.” Chide blurted.
“What a setup! Why didn’t you tell us?” Tope ranted. “What!” He exclaimed.
“You didn’t ask and you guys were excitedly copying the work without being concerned about where the solution might come from.” Chide stammered.
“Of all people in this class, it's Chide that you guys copied this assignment from.” Dolapo mumbled feeling remorseful.
“I felt you copied my work too.” Chide said.
“I've moved on and I suggest you guys move on too, but Chide…” Dolapo blustered. 
“We don’t do things like that; we’ve messed up, big time.” Tunde muttered.
After solving the assignment, he turned and faced the class only to see the students looking dumbfounded. Some of the students were even dozing off. 
“Stop sleeping!” He snarled. “What did you take for breakfast before coming to school?” he asked a rhetorical question. Such questions would never be left unanswered.
“Roasted bean and fried Akamu.” Tope muttered and all those sitting around his corner that heard him burst into laughter.
“Stop the noise.” He pointed at Funmi, Kolawole, Akin, and Ade to stand up, and to remain standing in order to become fully conscious since they were sleeping and not paying attention.
“Students would always like to use any slight opportunity available to make noise; why not develop the habit of studying and solving one or two mathematical problems.” He turned to the blackboard and glanced through the steps he used to get the solution to the assignment.
“If you were studying the way you said, would you have been here teaching?” Funmi muttered although her remark was heard by the students and everybody laughed. Students must have felt that teaching couldn’t be a preferred profession and were still expecting teachers to desire to become something other than teaching in future.
“What is funny; why are you laughing?” Mr. Rotimi was perplexed as he tried to figure out what must have made them to laugh; he came to understand that it could be students pranks which he shouldn’t necessarily pay attention to if he wouldn’t have to kill one of them someday. Nobody answered him thus he continued his explanation.  
“You'll accept with me that the first necessary step towards solving a mathematical problem is: understanding the question.” He read the question and gradually explained the solution. He felt he had done an excellent explanation and was satisfied. He believed that all the students must have been carried along. He thus asked to confirm his conviction. “Do you understand?” The students were quiet and didn’t say anything. “Can I take the silence to imply that you understood the steps I used to arrive at the answer?” They were still silent.
“I'm not comfortable with this your silence. Should I go over it again?” 
“No Sir, we understand.” Dolapo snapped.
“If there is any word like ‘overstand’ it should have been appropriate for this class.” Tope muttered. 
“Are you saying something?” Mr. Rotimi seemed to have seen Tope’s lips moved. “No Sir.” Tope growled abruptly.
“Can I wipe the board now?” He asked.
“Yes, Sir.” They answered in chorus.
Mr. Rotimi turned to wipe the blackboard with the duster. 
“I felt you had the liver; why didn’t you accept that you said something when Mr. Rotimi asked you.” Dolapo teased Tope.
“You think I don’t have home training like you? I give honour to whom honour is due and changing the order in which things are done is not my kind of thing.”
“Tope, you’re seriously contradicting yourself; didn’t this home training you claim to have teach you not to mutter words at your seniors?”
“Tope’s home training curriculum is an abridged version.” Tunde said.
Tope would've loved to reply them but Mr. Rotimi had finished cleaning the blackboard and turned. 
“We're going into a new topic for today.” Mr. Rotimi turned to write ‘Angles’ on the blackboard.
“This is certainly the point where we die; why won’t this man just leave this class for charity sake and concern for our feelings. Is he not a born again?”
“Tunde you're very funny; this is the best love he feels he's giving out. He's carrying out his duty responsibly.” Cecilia said.
“The love is freely given to you, accept it and be nourished.” Dolapo said.
“What is freely given? We're paying school fees for this boring class.” Tope raved.
Mr. Rotimi was distracted as he heard the sound made by Tope even though he didn’t hear what he actually said. “Anytime I turn my back, I'll always be hearing some of you talking; can’t you stop talking and pay attention?” He snarled “The noise usually comes from where the class monitor sits. Dolapo, you're the class representative and you ignore them while they keep making noise around you when the teacher is in the class without correcting them.”
“Not if he's the one spearheading the noise making.” Wale blustered.
They all turned and looked at him scornfully.
“I'm going to tell your form teacher to change your sitting positions; these twins are not supposed to be sitting together. Even this tiny one too is among them?” He was referring to Chide who sat with Cecilia.
“Sir, all of them sitting at that corner of the class,” Kolawole pointed at the end of the class where Dolapo and the twins were sitting, “always disturb the entire class.” Kolawole gushed.
“I see; I wouldn’t want to hear any noise from those of you sitting there again.” Mr. Rotimi growled as he cautioned them.
Mr. Rotimi turned and was writing a mathematical problem on the chalk board.
“Enemies; I can see them.” Tope muttered.
Dolapo signaled him to calm down. “We're going to resolve this amicably and everybody will have a fair share of the republic of SS3B’s cake.” He whispered.
“Am I still hearing any noise from that corner?” Mr. Rotimi sputtered.
“No Sir!” They shouted quickly. They understood that if Mr. Rotimi eventually noticed that they were still making noise, they would have to face their doom; he would take them to Mr. Rasheed and they would have to go home as the same persons in different bodies and new walking posture.
They remained quiet and calm as Mr. Rotimi continued teaching; they had concluded that Mr. Rotimi had a problem with expressing himself as such they were staring at the board as he was explaining the fundamentals of the new topic. They adopted a style of encouraging him to continue teaching by affirming that they understood what he was teaching whereas some of them weren’t really getting it. They wanted him to finish and leave the class soon enough but Mr. Rotimi would always want to exhaust his period.
After Mr. Rotimi finished explaining the basic rules and solving some problems, he gave them class exercise to solve in the class and left the class to the staff room to carry his red pen which he forgot to bring along. He wanted to start marking the assignment while the students were solving the class exercise he wrote on the board.
“I've never been this bored in my entire life!” Tope lamented immediately Mr. Rotimi went out of the class.
“You forgot to put ‘miserable’ somewhere.”  Dolapo gushed laughing.
“Who has finished?” Tunde asked rhetorically and everybody laughed.
“I usually tell everybody in this class that we have to maintain a strong bond and have one voice; it's unfair to tell Mr. Rotimi that those of us sitting here are the ones disturbing the class.” Dolapo sputtered.
“When I say we have guys that snitch on us in this class, you guys wouldn’t believe me; I’m a prophet and I’m telling those of you that want to destroy the bond that has been existing in this class that you'll fail; we’ve been united in this class until the coming of some self-acclaimed righteous hypocrites whose only talent is to pretend to be studious whereas are bunch of block heads; the enemy of this class will surely be exposed.” Tunde was speaking indirectly to Kolawole who joined them when they were already in SS3.
“Don’t worry folks; the God we serve is not asleep and wouldn’t start sleeping now. He'll surely expose those that wish evil for us; imagine the height of wickedness. You guys want to rain down undiluted evil upon us, isn’t it? Everybody in this class should understand that Mr. Rasheed has left his abode in hell and made this school a home. There is no longer devil in hell again and you guys want us to face the horror of Antichrist.” Tope said.
“Bro Mr. Rasheed is truly the actual devil; the one in hell is only an impersonation! Please, I’m still appealing to everybody in this class that whatever happens among us should be settled within and not taken outside; we should've understood our potentials by now and learned to accommodate ourselves.”
“That's none of my business; you guys are behaving like children in this class and I can’t condone that.” Kolawole said.
“You can go and beg for a change of class if you so wish, snitch.” Tunde snarled.
“Who are you calling a snitch?” Kolawole raved.
“The person talking old man!” Tope replied
“I don’t blame both of you; you’ve never experienced life that's why you keep talking like parrots.” Kolawole was angry.
“So this guy is truly an old man.” Chide was amazed and everybody laughed. Kolawole was embarrassed and sat quietly.
“It's not appropriate that we attack ourselves; we should be united in order to build walls to protect our interest, such that together we'll stand and shield ourselves from any threat by our competitors especially the other arms that have joined the school authority to condemn us in this class.” Dolapo said.
“I wouldn’t want to be in any other class but this one.” Chide gushed and everybody shouted in admiration. Kolawole and few others shook their heads to disapprove their gyration.
CHAPTER FIVE
Funmi was in the sitting room watching a Mexican movie that began 8:00 pm and she was really captivated and emotionally attached to the movie as she sat in suspense watching every scene and smiling at every turn of events. Mr. Abiodun came home very tired; it's a stressful day at work today and as he parked his car in the garage, he came out of the car exhausted and slouched to the door way and as he hit his hand on the door to knock, the door flung opened. “These children won’t be security conscious.” He muttered as he took a deep breath. He entered inside and locked the door with the key.
He entered the parlour and Funmi whose attention was still on the movie didn’t notice; Mr. Abiodun shook his head. “Children and movie, there’s too much distraction now.” He fell on the chair and felt some relief and comfort. “Funmi” he called and Funmi turned back surprised to see her father inside the room.
“Welcome daddy, when did you come?”
“You can’t know when I came back with the kind of undivided attention you have for that television. Why didn’t you lock the door?”
“Segun just left the house to school and I was in the kitchen cooking when he left.”
“Please always ensure to be locking the door when you're in. You know that nobody would prefer giving testimonies for having escaped death after being a victim of misfortune than not encountering the mishap at all. We have to prevent any misfortune the best way we can. I always tell you that when people experience mishap and survive, the victim can never remain the same; it will leave with you an undeniable consciousness of fear that you may not part with until you die.”
“I remember when you're much younger; you used to struggle to remove my shoes. At times you'd want to be part of the past than remembering the good memories.” Funmi wasn’t listening to what he was saying. Her eyes and attention were still fixed on the television and she expressed a great sense of humour as she watched the drama. Mr. Abiodun smiled as he stood up reluctantly and slouched to the bedroom. “Hope I'll be seeing my food set on the dining table when I come out of the bedroom with the keen interest you’ve devoted to this movie? You would have been a genius by now if you've given a quarter of such attention paid to movies to your books.”
“But dad, I've been studying hard.” Mr. Abiodun was close to her so she heard her father’s remark.
“Are you sure? I don’t see you leaving that television anytime soon; so what time do you have left to study this night?”
“The movie will soon be over. I've already arranged all the books that I'll be reading.”
“Hope my food won’t have to wait for the programme to be over because I can’t watch them eating this sumptuous and appealing meal in the television while I swallow saliva and die of hunger.”
“Dad, let me go and set your food; they're on commercial break now.” She stood up and was about leaving when Mr. Abiodun saw a lady preparing spaghetti delicacy to advertise a brand of Maggi. “Funmi when will you or your mother prepare this kind of meal for us? Even on Christmas day, we don’t eat this.”
“I can prepare it but Mummy won't allow me; she doesn’t like spaghetti.”
“She has always conditioned us to eat what she wants and dislike what she doesn’t want. That's bondage, isn’t it?” Funmi laughed as she heard her father’s insinuation. “Please don’t tell her that I said anything like that; let’s say we didn’t speak to ourselves this evening.”
“Does not speaking to ourselves this evening also imply that I won’t be preparing the spaghetti again?”
“I haven’t said that, have I? Of course, you'll have to prepare it; you'll prepare it anytime she goes for any seminar. She's been telling me about one that she'll be going for.  I'll give you money; please don’t forget to remind me.” Mr. Abiodun was whispering.
“Dad you are whispering.” 
“Walls have ears; let this be our little secret. When she goes for the seminar, you'll prepare the meal; we'll finish it and pray that another seminar comes while you research for better delicacies that won’t kill.” 
They both laughed and Mr. Abiodun went inside the room to change and take his bath while Funmi went to the kitchen to serve his food in the dining.
The locality where Mr. Abiodun resided had been suffering from attacks from hoodlums who had been terrorizing the occupants, entering their houses, raping women and girls, demanding for their money and if it wasn’t sufficient, they would kill the victims; they also kidnapped and used the victims for sacrifice to appease the heathen gods they worshipped after they might have collected ransom. Occupants thus chose to safeguard their houses by buying bullet proof doors or iron doors; the cost of making doors went up as demands increased; people would have pointed accusing fingers on the blacksmiths that constructed these Iron doors but the activities of the hoodlums were too brutal to suspect any blacksmith to conspire with the hoodlums for common profit. 
Some of the occupants would use the money budgeted for food and clothing to acquire Iron doors for all their rooms even toilet doors; some even made Iron doors to protect their live stocks. If it was possible some would have chosen to wear Iron clothes. They would say “life is sweet and security warrants life”. 
They would have to attend to security first to secure their lives before food and clothing. Occupants of the area became paranoid and could become unstable and frightened at any slight unprecedented sound heard. Even domestic animals were alert and security conscious and would go into their tents in the night before their owners came to drive them in.   
The hoodlums had come to the street some blocks away from Mr. Abiodun’s street not quite long ago. They followed a man into his house who came back from work in the night and they ate the hot Amala his pregnant wife prepared for him; and to make matters worse, they became angry that the hot Amala burnt their tongues while eating. They beat the hell out of the wife for not cooking the food on time to have made it so hot when they came. “Stingy woman,” one of them said as they were beating her. “So you don’t want us to eat.” One of them complained that he had Ulcer and she had made him to eat the food due to the irresistible aroma even though it had much pepper. “I know I'll suffer due to this much pepper in this soup I’m eating so let me make you suffer now.”  
They beat her black and blue kicking her on her stomach and all the parts of her body their legs could reach; the beating made her had a miscarriage. They made her husband to watchas they assaulted and molested his wife. After they finished beating her, they turned to him and started beating him for being chubby and not having more money to commensurate his size. They took the whole money they could find and stripped the wife of all her jewelry. 
“Thank you for the meal anyway; we wouldn’t have had the strength to carry out our operation if not for the meal.” The leader gushed as they were leaving. They tried to enter other houses but couldn’t despite the threat and the gun shot the occupants refused to open their doors; although some were about to open their doors as the threat made them not to trust their wooden doors; they went beyond their normal disposition to resist the desire to open their doors. They felt the hoodlums would succeed to open the doors after consistently struggling and would become more violent and cause more harm if they entered after having a hard time with their doors. Others that weren’t active Christians before the incident embraced Christianity more fervently as they prayed for their safety with many promises which if they weren’t under duress, they would never keep. One of the women promised to give her notorious son to God if she survived the attack and this son she was promising to God was an addicted Indian-hemp smoker. Some even unconsciously willed their entire property to the church before knowing. They were just praying at random and saying anything that came out of their mouth hoping that God would avert the hoodlums’ harassment and cause their adversaries to meet a bad end.
The hoodlums later ran away when they heard the siren from the police cars that were approaching them. The police officers couldn’t chase them as they went a bit far before they came. Even with the presence of the police officers in the locality, the people didn’t come out until it was dawn and everywhere seemed bright. Those that were supposed to go to work early in the morning went very late and narrated the horror that happened to their colleagues at work.


CHAPTER SIX
Mrs. Iyabo wanted to prepare Amala and Ewedusoup which was Mr. Abiodun’s favorite; she understood that they had already become tired of the everyday rice and it had been long they ate any meal that wasn’t preserved inside a stainless flask. She resolved to cook for the family today unlike other Saturdays that she attended either church programmes or claimed to be very tired as such allowing Funmi to cook the food. She was rearranging her cloths inside the box in the bedroom and the television was switched on as Mr. Abiodun was keen listening to the health tips discussed by a medical practitioner as she was been interviewed by a presenter. The doctor was educating the audience on the causes, preventions, symptoms, and management of cancer.
“Everything causes cancer nowadays; I don’t want to live to see the day that external exposure to fan or air-condition will become causes of cancer too. Else I won’t know how one will survive this refurbished hell in this sub-Saharan part of the continent.” Mr. Abiodun said as he was still staring at the medical doctor while she was listing the possible causes of cancer.
“You don’t cease to amaze me; how is it possible for the air that emanates from fans or air conditions to be among the causes of cancer; cancer isn’t pneumonia. Cancer can come from junk foods and preserved foods in coated Tin containers.” 
“Then invariably food kept inside the flask for a long period of time may also prompt the growth of cancer; perhaps that's why the food loses the natural nutrient that comes from the initial hotness thereby losing the necessary vitamins. One could probably be eating chaff.” 
“But food flask makes the food to retain its initial temperature and when eating the food any time of the day it would be as if it's just removed from the fire.”
“That's a comparison which isn't necessarily true; it can be and it can’t be. I can as well prove that food that's been preserved inside the flask can’t be as hot and nutritious as the one brought out of the fire to be consumed almost immediately. I shouldn’t be talking about hotness and neglect the taste. The one kept in the flask at times has negative colour transformation and looks watery; remember I said at times.”
They both laughed. “I know where you're driving to; don’t worry, I'll prepare your favourite for you today and I won’t have to preserve it inside the food flask before you eat it. But you know we can’t do without a flask in this house.”
“I know; the inventor of food flask had this family’s necessity in mind before inventing flask.”
“But you're shifting the blame on me alone. You're not always around when the food is prepared and we can’t leave it in the pot else it'll get cold and will likely spoil.”
“My dear, I’m glued to this house today; I’ll be going nowhere.”
“I’ll need some money to buy some items.”
“There we go again; I almost thought I’ve been redeemed only to discover that the worst is yet to come. Wasn’t it yesterday you received your salary?”
“And so; who should be the provider? I’ve done budget for my salary already and I forgot to indicate kitchen utensils and feeding; unfortunately, I’ve done the estimate and gotten the total amount; except you want me to be destabilized by touching my plan.”
“It’s not a good plan if there’s no room for love but selfishness. Are you telling me that you’ve included yourself in my salary when I’ve not received it?”
“I haven’t said so; but if that's what it implies, Yes. And I can see that you’ve got a long way to go.”
“What if I’m denied salary this month?”
“Let’s be optimistic; there will be no need to consider the probability that won’t be. Let’s be ‘Yes people’”.
“So how much do you need for the meal?”
“We’re talking beyond the meal here; I'd have to buy some food stuff for the kitchen.”
“Okay; how much?”
“I'll manage Thirty thousand naira.”
“What” Mr. Abiodun exclaimed. “That's almost my entire salary.”
“When we both know that your salary is almost three hundred and fifty thousand naira as an engineer in your construction company; I’m even been considerate since I'd have to add some money too.”
“That doesn’t mean that I'd spend all my money buying food. Let me give you money for this meal; I’ll give you the other one later when I use the ATM machine. Will one thousand naira be okay for the meal?” 
“You’ll someday have to go to the market to see things for yourself; there's inflation and prices of things are going up. Give me four thousand naira.” 
“Four thousand naira for only one meal? Now I understand that you’re trying to make items seem expensive.”
“Maybe, I don’t have to cook again.” She stood up and was going out of the bedroom.
“Okay” Mr. Abiodun dipped his hand inside the pocket of his trouser and brought out ten thousand naira. He counted four thousand naira and handed it over to Mrs. Iyabo who keenly watched him counted the money.
“How much is this?” She looked at the money and already knew it's four thousand; she had become used to counting large sum of money being a banker as such it wouldn’t take her time to know small sum of money by merely looking at it. “Won’t you give me money for fuel?”
“You can use the four thousand for fuel and buy the food items with your own money; that's the definition of ‘understanding and initiative’. And please don’t demand for money for cloths for yourself and even your children since I've got that covered in your budget.”  
“Let me not say anything for now; that will be a discussion for another day.” Mrs. Iyabo understood her husband very well and knew he was joking. Mr. Abiodun was an easy going man that was accommodating.
Mrs. Iyabo came out of the room and saw Funmi sitting at the parlour watching television. She took a deep breath to control her anger and disappointment.
“Funmi, what are you doing sitting there?”
“Nothing Mum;” she said quickly as she stood up.
“This your bad habit is certainly not from me; it's almost 8:00 am and all you could do after eating breakfast is to come and sit at the parlour and watch television when everywhere is unkempt. If I start complaining, your dad will say I’m not doing it in the right way. If this is what being friendly will cause by making you become lazy and irresponsible, I don’t want to be friendly. What arrant nonsense; why will a girl be so insensitive to her surrounding and I'd have to come out and start laughing with her and try to make her understand her stupidity by dialoguing with her and explaining the reason why her bad habit could be wrong with a sense of humour and countenance as if nothing happened. I won’t tolerate such gross misbehaviour in this house. Stop slouching like a snail; raise that stony leg of yours and go pick a broom.”
“I inherited the stony legs from you.” She muttered as she was going.
“What did you say? Are you talking back when I'm talking?” She began to march towards her and Funmi wouldn’t be dumb enough to wait for her mother to meet her else she would receive a memorable spanking of a life time.
Mr. Abiodun came out worried. “Why can’t you and your own daughter be friendly for a day; am I living with a cat and a dog in human forms? From one quarrel to another; somebody will explode in this house one day!”
“I won’t allow her to have such leverage under my nose; you better talk to your daughter to stop daring me in this house else I’m going to give her a mark that she would never forget in her life time.”
“Please don’t give my only daughter a mark; please I beg you. Don’t kill my only daughter for me.”
“Then talk to her.”
They both walked away angry and displeased; Mr. Abiodun who wanted to settle the conflict was left standing in the open, more or less confused on the next step to take.
Mrs. Iyabo entered the kitchen to cook and was confused and almost becoming frustrated; she checked the container containing Maggi and it was remaining one, the pepper container wasn’t anywhere within her sight and she didn’t see the need to ransack the kitchen since every utensil was visibly arranged. 
“This girl is just so irresponsible; these things have finished and she didn’t have the initiative to tell me on time. Does she think I’m a magician? Funmi!” She shouted.
Funmi who just finished to sweep the parlour and was peeping at the programme been televised knew from the tone of her mother’s call that she would be closed to being crucified hearing the way her voice vibrated; that was indeed a bad omen. However, she had lived with her mother long enough to understand and accommodate her mother’s temperament; she would only have to ignore her most of the times and behave as though she wasn’t saying anything since she wouldn’t kill her at least not soon if she would ever think of it.
She tottered to the kitchen. “Yes Mummy”
“Why didn’t you tell me that all these things have finished?”
“What has finished?”
“The ingredients for cooking; there is only one Maggi remaining, I can’t even find the container of salt and even the container of pepper. Where did you keep all these things?”
“The containers are inside the cupboard.” She went forward, opened the cupboard and brought out the containers from the corner of the cupboard which were almost hidden. Funmi was the one that prepared supper yesterday.
“Always keep these containers where someone can see them easily. You have to go and buy the Maggi from the supermarket across the street; there's money inside the bag in the bedroom. Take five hundred naira from the bag and buy a sachet of Maggi and also a packet of salt.”
Funmi wasn’t happy going out of the house; she wanted to watch a programme scheduled for 9:00 am and she would have to miss some of the scenes. Funmi was somebody that was very emotional and loved paying attention to all the scenes to understand the implicit connections; she was easily amused and appreciated the slightest creativity displayed in movies. She would always want to understand the motive behind any emotional comment made. She appreciated romantic movies and couldn’t have enough of it. Any music that caught her interest no matter the genre made her felt enthralled and delighted; she usually felt some consolation and mental healing listening to good music and watching movies; thus she wouldn’t imagine anything more compelling and pleasing than the melody of the music as it would often resound in her head. She really fancied creativity. She wished her mother sent her earlier. 
CHAPTER SEVEN
Bolaji sat with Korede under the mango tree close to the Melphizy Supermarket; they had been sitting there for some time now; they had finished the soft drinks and snacks they bought and were more or less admiring nature and enjoying the fresh air the atmosphere could afford at that moment. They were in their second year at the state university but chose to be going from their houses, unlike Segun who lived close to the school.
“Bro, we will be having a test in my department on Monday and I don’t have any material to read.”  Bolaji seemed worried as time kept running. They had been informed about the assessment test in his department for over a week now and he had always thought that there was time to properly settle down and gather materials whereas as days went by, the date for the test drew nearer than consciously expected without him really paying attention.
“Why will you have any material to read when you barely attend lectures; you guys are too plenty in that department of yours. How do you manage to get what your lecturers are saying?”
“Bro that's something else; if you don’t go to the lecture hall some hours before any scheduled lecture, you wouldn’t get a seat inside the hall and at times even the opportunity to stand by the window to listen to what the lecturer could be saying. Some of the notes I have written I had to collect it from some students who collected it from a student that also collected it from a student that probably copied the wrong thing he heard from the lecturers. That's why you're a genius if you get a ‘C’ in my department.”
“You're very unserious else what stops you from going to sit at the lecture hall some hours before the scheduled time and be the one to give out the wrong notes to others to copy; students can always give excuses to fail their exams. Bro, be responsible and become serious. I bet you're distracted by the beautiful girls in your department. That's why I like the Department of Art especially that mass communication department which you are.”
“Engineering department also has pretty ladies; I saw them when I came to your lecture hall to check on you last week Thursday.”
“Those ladies that have forgotten that they're ladies; those ladies which you saw are even manlier than you. Engineering has a way of transforming ladies; they would prefer to discuss engineering problems than relationship matters and if you'd want to graduate, you have to see them like your fellow guys in women figures.”
“Bro, I'm sad that I've never had a stable relationship; often times the breakup will just come without the girl giving me any good reason; Chidera just demanded for space and time to focus on her studies after she refused to pick my calls for a while. She was saying she wanted to be more serious with her studies.”
“You speak as if you’ve ever been emotionally involved with anybody other than Chidera; I remember that Chidera only accepted to be your friend and since the term friendship can be ambiguous, yours was crystal clear that there was no emotional attachment to it. So why would she need the space in the first place; or is there something that was happening that you didn’t tell me?”
“Why would you say that?”
“Are you a child? Are you not the one that's been complaining that she's always been giving you one excuse or another not to come around you except she'd an academic problem; I don’t even think that you had the nerve to discuss anything other than academics.”
“I was looking for the right time to tell her my intention before she told me that she would need time for herself; I understand that those in a platonic friendship don’t need to take a break since there could be no emotional involvement, one can just disappear without sufficient reasons and reunite at any time. There must be something emotional for her to officially demand for space. She must have felt something for me. Bro, it's like a miracle when Chidera first spoke to me; she met me in my Departmental Park and asked me to direct her to where she could pay for departmental registration.”
“I can’t forget your obnoxious story so soon; where you had to pay for the departmental registration with money from your school fees and had to collect more money after deceiving your mother that you needed to buy some mandatory textbooks else you will fail, to complete your school fees.”
“Bro, I haven’t forgiven myself for that; my mother needed that money to buy drugs for her High Blood Pressure treatment and she gave me the money and I had to collect it since the school portal was about to close. Thank God she was okay until she finally got the money to buy the drugs.”
“After all these sacrifices that almost took your mother's life, you still didn’t have the courage to tell her what you feel for her?” Korede gushed and laughed in mockery. “Maybe she discovered that you are about to man up and tell her your intention and since you are not her type and not up to her league and class, she had to withdraw. You chose to be the kind of friend that would be doing assignments for her at the expense of your lectures and time. She understood the direction which you were going; she got the little money which you had to spend and the marks from the assignments you did for her which you can never do for yourself but to impress her. Can a man be that generous? She was following your rhythm.” He touched him on his shoulder as Bolaji looked depressed on hearing his remark. “Sorry bro; you'll be fine.”
“What will I do to get her back?”
“Was there something there before that you would want to get back? Put that effort into your studies and you'll become a genius.” Korede said laughing. “You know what? The time and effort we dedicate to chasing and talking to opposite sex if we invest or channel that energy into creative endeavour we’ll become unbeatable in our fields.”
“That is an engineering convocational speech and I’m neither aspiring to be an engineer nor a genius; I want to get Chidera back or get another lady. I want to go into a real relationship.”
”What will you use to date a lady; where is the money? Maybe Chidera has seen you for who you truly are; a broke and penniless man else why are we taking soft drinks under this tree and on this strong stone that is almost killing my buttock.”
“I don’t necessarily need money to buy love; I can find a girl that loves me for who I am.”
“You’re not serious, are you? Money facilitates love; money is just like logistics that propels love. If you don’t have money and you go into a relationship, you'll succeed in wasting the little money you’ve managed to get and your time; you may miss the opportunities to build yourself since your time is consumed.”
“But if I'm in a relationship, there will be a necessity to make money and I'll be challenged and that will make me become creative and look for innovative ways to make money.”
“What kind of creativity; is it through diabolic mean or theft? Graduates can’t even secure a job. Maybe you want to compel your mother to give you more money. Please, bro, don’t kill that woman.” He jabbered laughing.
“I can have a lady that will understand and be patient with me.”
“You can and I haven’t doubted that, but it would have been easier if it were written on their heads so that you can identify the one that can understand and be patient with you in your poverty. You'll have to prepare yourself for more heartbreak since after the initial excitement she will become fed up and back away if there’s no money to sustain the relationship. You always have to impress your woman to maintain the relationship. Bro, there is time for everything.”
Funmi came to the supermarket to buy the ingredient her mother sent her to buy; she greeted as she passed them to the supermarket.
“I like this Segun’s younger sister.”
“Now I discover that you're gradually becoming mad. Are you not the one talking about Chidera just now? You better respect yourself and you don’t have to make somebody talk to you without courtesy.”
“Bro, I will like to talk to her when she comes out of the supermarket.”
“I pray this one doesn’t put you in the friend zone if you survive with your cheeks still intact.”
“You're not even encouraging me at all; I've understood fully why Bukola usually says that you are afraid of women.”
“Do they wear masks that I'd be afraid of them; I just don’t feel it’s the right time. After all, I don’t have the resources and time to spend in a relationship and I can’t lie to myself and lie to anybody – that's what relationship is all about; it is built on deception. You'll think you're smart and you dictate the pattern of the game whereas you're the one becoming the victim; you may be fortunate when you realize yourself and pull back else you'll sink in the whole mess and have to pick up the shattered pieces of your remaining life which will never be the same since you must have missed valuable opportunities when you had the strength to be a better person. People have neglected greater endeavours, forsaken useful campaigns and relegated projects that gear self-development because they were entangled in one fruitless relationship that demanded attention at the expense of their self-aggrandizement. Bro, there can be no much goodness in a relationship when you haven’t made up your mind and ready to marry. You'll be distracted.”
“Korede, save your sermon; I'll go after this girl.”
“Suit yourself; don’t be embarrassed when you are rejected because I won’t listen to you as you express your frustration and guilt.”
Funmi didn’t stay long at the supermarket; she bought the sachet of Maggi and salt and was going back home. Bolaji was already waiting for her; he left Korede sitting alone under the mango tree.
“Funmi, how are you doing?” Bolaji wanted to begin a conversation.
“I'm fine; thank you,” Funmi said quickly, she wanted to go home fast enough; she had a television programme she wanted to watch and Bolaji seemed to be interrupting her.
“I don’t know how to begin.” He was too shy to begin with the customary admiration speech to woo a lady; he had already been familiar with Funmi and felt embarrassed to begin in that fashion.
“Begin what?” Funmi snarled and was impatient; her instinct had already intimated her on the direction the discussion was going and she knew from the onset seeing his gestures. She wasn’t ready and willing.
“I like you and I want us to become friends.” He was trying to be polite, careful and conscious of the words he was uttering and how appropriate and appealing it would sound when heard. He was rather stammering; his words weren’t flowing as he would have loved it to be. There was some sense of fear of rejection.
“I don’t understand; we're friends already. You're my brother’s friend and you’ve been coming to our house.”
“Yes, we're friends already.” He seemed to be lost and lacking sufficient words to say. “But I want us to be intimate; you're a kind, gentle and intelligent lady and you're the kind of lady I would want to be close to. You're very charming and beautiful; words can’t express the extent of my admiration for you. I really and truly like you.”
“You're my brother’s friend and I would appreciate it if we should remain friends; I'm not interested in any intimate relationship.” Funmi grumbled.
“You know I'm not a bad person and I would respect, cherish and adore you…”
“Please my mother sent me to get something for her and she'd be expecting me by now; I have to go.”
“Can I see you some other time?”
“No,” she snarled as she walked away.
Korede was laughing at him as he slouched back to where he was sitting with his face covered with shame; he wished he didn’t make the move in the first place. He began to feel guilty and was afraid that Funmi might tell Segun. 
“To be fore warned is to be fore armed; that girl is still in secondary school for Christ sake. Do you want to spoil somebody’s daughter? Thank God she's even polite enough; you're a brute to have approached her and her future would've been jeopardized if she'd accepted. If I were her I would have slapped you.”
“She wouldn’t dare that; maybe she'll think about what I said and come running after me.”
“You know why I like you? You're very hopeful; you should be thinking about what Segun will do to you if he eventually knows that you tried to ask his kid sister out. If young girls only realize the level of injustice and unfairness they expose themselves to when dating young guys who have no knowledge of what the future holds.” 
Bolaji was disturbed been reminded of Segun although he tried to wave it out.
“Will Segun marry his sister? Someone else would have to marry her and I can be a potential husband.”
“Young man, as your friend, if I don’t tell you the truth, I'll be failing in my responsibilities. Leave that girl and the thought of any other girl alone for now; you ought to pay attention to your studies now that somebody is carrying the burden of paying your school fees. You make your future bright from the activities you engage yourself in now and not the future. You mustn’t have to regret your past and console yourself with the excuse that you were adolescent and ignorant thus making attempts to deny the lingering guilt which you can never run away from in future. I haven’t said you can’t make friends but your priority shouldn’t be misplaced. You talk about this relationship as if there's a live wire attached to it; you'll be celebrated in time if you make this sacrifice now.”
“Bro you don’t understand what I'm feeling; I want to have somebody that I can share my being with.”
“Which implies that you want to have somebody that you can share your money with and be broke; Bro, it's up to you but as for understanding, I know what you're feeling because I'm a guy too and I'm telling you that you're not ready and your attention shouldn’t be divided.”
“We’ve stayed here for long; I'll have to go to school to look for materials. Are you going to accompany me?”
“Then I'll have to take my bath?”
“No wonder I've been enduring a poignant stench; so there's a reason for that smell.”
“Get out” Korede laughed as they stood up.
CHAPTER EIGHT
The principal cautioned all the students at the assembly to desist from noise making and cultivate the habit of studying when there was no teacher in the class. She was very bitter as she made reference to SS3B and defined them to be the most irresponsible set of students the school ever had in SS3. “You fail to realise that you ought to lead the others and be a role model for the junior students to emulate. The noise from SS3B disturbs the whole school and I promise you that the next time any teacher complains about your class again, I will suspend everybody in SS3B for 2 weeks.” 
They were staring at the principal as she was speaking and grimaced to be looking pathetic and remorseful. The principal dismissed the students to go to their various classes after they sang the national anthem. No teacher entered SS3B in the first lesson period after assembly and the students in the class wouldn’t stop talking and moving from one desk to another teasing themselves and calling themselves derogatory names for amusement despite the warning by the principal. They were acting as if the principal’s admonition intensified the noise making instead. 
“Tunde won’t you show us that you’ve gotten talent?” Tope gushed and Tunde heard him from where he was standing.
“Now is not the right time to drop the hit; let me keep the class in a state of suspense so that when I ascend the stage I'll perform beyond imagination.” Tunde was confident and full of himself as he was ranting and walking towards Tope who sat on top of the first desk close to the door leading to the class.
“Which style would you give us this time; is it Indian style?” Simbi said mockingly; the last time Tunde claimed to be singing, nobody in the class could hear what he was saying. They could only get ‘yo, yo, yo’ being repeated continuously and he would never accept that he was a terrible singer. He would bet anybody that had the nerve to condemn him to come to the front of the class which they called ‘the stage’ to challenge him and since there's nobody willing to come out, he declared himself ‘The Lord of hippozy’ in the class.
“If I should understand what Simbi said very well, Tunde can’t compete with old tired frogs excitedly gyrating,” Tope gushed.
“That's not what I said.” Simbi refuted Tope’s insinuation quickly. “You’re a superstar and can sing any genre of music even though you’ve been giving us Fuji style.”
Everybody laughed; Tunde had always claimed to be singing hip hop only to be classified under Fuji style of music which was more or less relegating and insulting. Tunde’s countenance changed and he wasn’t pleased to have heard that.
“Why are you guys laughing and making Tunde feel that I’m mocking him?” Simbi tried to disclaim any negative intention.
“Let me help you; Tunde’s hip hop music is more or less Fuji. What a pity!” Tope laughed. Tunde looked scornfully at Tope. “Those are not my words; I'm trying to explicate on what Simbi is finding difficult to express. I’m only a mouthpiece.”
“I haven’t said anything like that.”
“Simbi, why are you denying the truth; the truth will help him to develop and become a superstar.” 
“Tope is saying the truth!” Cecilia gushed.
“If there's anybody that can challenge me; let me see you come to the stage. We're living in the world of ‘show us what you’ve getism’ and as for my brother, don’t think you’ve won.”
Tope laughed and did the introduction. “As the distinguish DG Gordon B Tugbagologilanga, I'm about dropping one of the most phenomenal beats of all time. Let’s give a standing ovation as we welcome Glenx to the stage” 
Tunde’s performing name was Glenx. Tope climbed the desk and began drumming on the desk, Tunde who was outspoken and wasn’t afraid to display his stupidity in public begun rapping to the sound of the beat drummed by Tope his twin brother. He must have rehearsed the lyrics during the weekend no wonder he wasn’t afraid to sing despite the mockery. Tope who was teasing him was the one taking the chorus while drumming the desk. The song was flowing on a steady and regular melody as the rhymes were matching the beat. They had indeed really worked on themselves. Everybody in the class was amazed and enjoyed the music until Tunde decided to show himself; he began to freestyle and the drummer became confused. 
“Tunde! What are you singing?” Tope was perplexed. Tunde was excited and didn’t hear what Tope said. He only realized himself when Tope who became frustrated stopped drumming.
“Singing really has a possession of its own kind.” Chide said.
“Why did you stop drumming?” Tunde asked.
“If not that we came from the same house; I would have needed God himself to convince me that you're not under the influence of any leaf. What in heaven's name were you singing?”
“Perhaps Tunde has Fuji in his blood.” Cecilia said.
“Hold it right there; Tunde is my brother and the same blood runs through our veins. However, the assertion may be true; Tunde must have inherited his Fuji style from my great grandfather who performed for the gods.”
“You guys don’t have ears for good music else why would you be confusing hip hop music for Yoruba Fuji music. Anyway, who is challenging me; who is bringing it on me!” Tunde blustered and nobody in the class would dare stand up.
“C’mon guys; let’s not give Tunde cheap victory; let me see one of you stand up and challenge him.” Tope beseeched appealing to the class.
Dolapo strode into the class from the staff room; he had been in the staff room with the class form teacher. “Mr. Rasheed is coming!” He exclaimed as he entered the class, and everybody ran back to their seats and was dead silent. They were afraid that Mr. Rasheed must have heard them making noise and would descend furiously on them remembering that they were cautioned not to disturb the school at the assembly ground this morning. 
Tunde and Tope were sweating and frightened that they would go home either deformed or limping today. They couldn’t think of any useful thing than the horror Mr. Rasheed would rain on them if he came to their class. They waited for some time in anticipation for the doom that would befall them only for Dolapo to stand up and say: “I've a divine inspiration and from now on, I'd like you guys to call me governor and by that I mean class governor; it’s a matter of change, as in, perspective concern.” The members of the class were still quiet; some of them seemed to be shocked and petrified. They didn’t respond to what Dolapo said neither did they notice him nor understand his intention; they were gazing at the door as they awaited their doom.
“Seriously! Is that how you guys fear Mr. Rasheed as if he's a God?” Dolapo began to laugh. “I bet you that I got you guys today. Mr. Rasheed is not in school; I overheard the principal saying it in the staff briefing.”
Tunde sighed deeply; “Dolapo, it is Mr. Rasheed we're talking about here and not anybody but almighty Antichrist.” Tunde emphasized to be sure.
“Yes; I just left the staff room.”
“Dolapo, you're very stupid to have played with my emotion like that; I almost suffocated.” Tope said.
“Yours is small as compared to mine; I was about urinating on my pant hearing the name of Mr. Rasheed.” Tunde said.
Mr. Rasheed the dean of discipline was a tall and muscular man with an intimidating stature and a fierce facial expression that hadn’t expressed any sense of humour for ages. He wore a mustache and his bald head wouldn’t be noticed as there was never a strand of hair seen on his head and his chin. He had a protruded stomach and always tucked his shirt in his trouser and the belt was always on his stomach. He was nicknamed ‘Antichrist’. Tunde would always say that he would beat a student black and blue and remove both spirits belonging to God and the devil and leave the victim dumb. There was nothing in this world left for him to smile at after losing his wife and child when his wife was giving birth to her first child; the psychological trauma had changed him entirely coupled with the high rate of indiscipline exhibited by the last set when he became the dean of discipline. Experience taught him to be hard and rigid and the principal commended his effort for being active inregulating and controlling the dubious activities of students. He's indeed used to the business of handling students without mercy.
It was as though you were cursed by your ancestors for a hideous and unforgiving crime committed against your entire clan if you should endure the molestation of Mr. Rasheed for having disobeyed the school rules and regulations. There was no particular style or disciplinary measure which he used to correct students; he could start by head booting a student or sweeping a student off the floor with a fierce kick as if the student was a ball and would match the student concurrently. He would use any weapon or instrument he came in contact with while correcting a student to trash the student in no particular order all over his or her body. A student would look miserable and confused after he finished beating him or her; he would stop beating a student after the student must have promised severally that he or she would never commit such crime in his or her entire life. His slogan was ‘when it rains it pours’. 
Dolapo would always say that one would have to go for thanksgiving if Mr. Rasheed only slapped you on your face even though you may likely call him ‘Daddy’ as the slap would turn your memory upside down. However, that would be the last thing he would do and such mild punishment was close to being impossible for Mr. Rasheed to administer. Parents would come and complain but it was a government school and the best thing they could do was to withdraw their children from the school. 
However, Mr. Rasheed wasn’t a brute and he didn’t discipline a child without concrete and proven reason for misconduct. He was only quick to anger and lacked the self-control to contain his disgust when cases of disobedience were reported to him. Whenever he came out on duty the entire school would maintain an absolute silence such that a pin drop could be heard. He had a motorcycle bike that he was bringing to school but the students that passed out of the school last year poured salt inside the engine that knocked it on their graduation day; they had attempted to beat him up before but he was too powerful thus they only stoned him as they were leaving the school after their final SSCE examination although none would be courageous to withstand his advances.  
Everybody in the class laughed uncontrollably the last time he entered the class and demanded the names of noise makers and unfortunately Dolapo didn’t write names and he couldn’t prove that the class wasn’t making noise. Mr. Rasheed who had observed them and was convinced beyond reasonable doubt that they were making noise foremost condemned the students of the class to be irresponsible and shameless to have had all their appointed post as prefects stripped off due to their poor performance while in SS2. They were contented with sitting in the class and turning the class to an amusement park and disco hall at the expense of their duties. Tope was the assistant health perfect and had never gone to the school laboratory outside classes scheduled for practical; Tunde was the time keeper and would fast forward his wrist watch such that he would ring the bell anytime it felt convenient for him; Funmi was the library prefect and didn’t know how the library looked like after the librarian showed them the technique of cataloging and their functions in the library as librarians the first day they came to the library for orientation after their appointment and that was the last day she entered the library. Chide was the sanitary prefect who would have been dedicated to work but he was teased by the members of his class to be the dirtiest senior student and the dirtiest in the history of Olatomide Grammar School else why would he be told diplomatically by appointing him to be in charge of the school toilet; they made him believed that the intention of the school authority to have chosen to give him that post was more or less a mockery and if he would triumph against the injustice, he didn’t have to go there. He received the wrong advice from the wrong people. Deborah was the only one that performed her responsibility diligently as an assistant head girl however she was unfortunate that she was in SS3B and the stigma affected her. All the prefects were appointed from the other arms of the SS3 class. 
Mr. Rasheed admonished Dolapo for failing in his responsibility; he felt he should have curtailed the noise or sought for help from the authority if things got out of his hand. He insisted that Dolapo would have to be punished which he said would make him realize his duty and the nature of the office he carried. He became very angry as Dolapo was hesitating to come close to him when he insisted that he should come closer to him to receive his punishment; he felt that Dolapo was being stubborn and arrogant whereas Dolapo was actually afraid. He snarled at him to come quickly for he hadn’t the time but Dolapo was begging and appealing to him to reconsider and forgive him. He angrily went closer to Dolapo and pulled him forward. Everybody in the class was cold and frightened as they watched. As he pulled Dolapo to the front of the class, Mr. Rasheed was already uncontrollable and vibrating in anger. Dolapo staggered and almost fell on the hard floor but he gained balance after struggling. 
Mr. Rasheed was indeed angry and looked violent; the emotion that ruled him made him to forget that the trouser he wore was oversized thus bigger than his waist and the belt was the only instrument that sustained it to his waist. Tope wasn’t wrong to have suspected that Mr. Rasheed was a customer and grand patron of ‘bend down select’ popularly called ‘Okirika’. He had always insisted that the extra-large nature of his baggy trousers were beyond the boutique and the shirts which he wore to be new seemed worn out already and out of fashion. 
Mr. Rasheed quickly loosened his belt and holding the head of the belt, pulled it off and his baggy trouser sagged down and his underwear was almost exposed; he quickly grabbed the trouser before it reached his knees although as he responded quickly to catch the falling trouser, the students almost saw his pant. He couldn’t move else the entire class would see his nakedness. He stood confused and embarrassed. He didn’t know the best action to takeand he envisaged the implication of any decision he would take; he couldn’t start fixing the belt in front of the students and he couldn’t risk removing his hand from the trouser else it would drop on the floor and if he would move, he would have to walk in an unusual funny posture. He was covered with shame and overwhelmed with indecisiveness. The students were still afraid and didn’t dare to laugh; they were watching and waiting to see his next move. They were afraid that after he finished dealing with Dolapo, they would be the next to experience his wrath. Dolapo was already dying in fear.
Mr. Rasheed stood for some minutes shaking his head in disappointed; he finally grabbed the trouser up very well and walked quickly out of the class. The class was silent for more than thirty minutes probably hoping that he would come back and Dolapo was still kneeling on the floor; he was afraid to stand up. It was the Biology teacher who came to the class that relieved them of their worst fears.
CHAPTER NINE
It was 10:30 am and the time keeper rang the bell to end the long recess; students who were playing football had to stop playing even though they would have loved to continue. They were some of the students in the field who were fully prepared to play but didn’t have the opportunity to play. The time seemed to fly and those scheduled to play as substitute team couldn’t play; the teams playing couldn’t score on time. They were selected into teams and each team would have a chance to play when one of the teams playing conceded a goal from the opponent thereby losing their place in the game thus giving the chance to another waiting outside to come in and play. Chide loved playing football but nobody would accept to choose him in the first two teams that played; he was supposed to play with the second team before the bell rang and they wouldn’t risk staying behind to play else you would be devoured by Mr. Rasheed’s fury.
Chide was coming back to the class with his classmates that played football at the field. They were covered with sweat except those that couldn’t play. Chide was really disappointed and he wished he had touched the ball at least for few minutes before the time elapsed. He wore a sad countenance as he entered the class.
“Let me guess;” Tunde looked at Chide. “Chide scored two goals today.” Those that went to the field were laughing. 
“Why are you guys laughing? G-man is a world best footballer and I am waiting for you guys to confirm it especially those of you that were his team mates. I haven’t seen anyone among you that can match his dribbling skills. I know he must have scored more than two goals today.”
They laughed continuously; they knew that Tunde was beingsarcastic. Tunde stood up from his seat and went to where Chide sat down depressed; he observed Chide’scountenance and noticed that he was really depressed although he couldn’t place his finger on the actual reason for his state. Tunde wasn’t a good footballer as such he always stayed in the class alongside some of the class members during recess.
“G-man what is making them laugh; is it that they don’t know the truth when they see one?” Tunde pretended to be looking perplexed and concerned as they continued to laugh; although he felt that they were laughing at his sarcasm.
“Hunger has made them not to recognize the truth.” Tope said laughing. “Chide is an unbeaten world best footballer; I don’t need to be a prophet to see his future and see him winning the title of the world best footballer for ten consecutive times.” He went to the chalkboard and wrote: “G-man the unbeaten champion”. Those that went to play in the field continued laughing. “G-man, don’t forget people like us when you're playing at Stamford Bridge.”
“Why will he play at Stamford Bridge? He will play at Old Trafford.” Tunde refuted Tope quickly; he was a Manchester United Football club fan. The boys were laughing unceasingly and Chide wasn’t amused. He still looked unhappy and unfulfilled.  
“I'm surprised that they're laughing; maybe Chide will explain the cause of their laughter better, or is it that I’m not getting something right?” Tunde asked.
“G-man doesn’t have anything to explain; they've always been intimidated by his wonderful skills; they know deep down that Chide is the best footballer in the school yet they refused to choose him in the first team.” Dolapo insinuated even though he wasn’t in the field. He knew that if Chide had played he wouldn’t have been sad; he would have been laughing at the sarcastic remarks made by the twins. The twins were just trying to amuse the class and Chide was always comfortable with their jokes before now even though he was being ridiculed. No wonder the twins were surprised that he wasn’t laughing and happy. 
“What! He didn’t play in the first two teams?” Tope was displeased. “And you guys allowed junior students played in the first two teams, isn’t it?” 
“We're playing to win and if there are junior students that can play better, we have to use them.” Akin said.
Tope mimicked him by repeating his statement derogatorily. “Hear yourself speak with your shapeless caterpillar leg.”
“Even though G-man is the worst player and doesn’t know how to kick a ball, he should have been allowed to play; you guys are so driven by mundane things at the expense of the happiness of one of you. Is it because he's small and harmless that you deprive him of his inalienable and fundamental right to play football in the first two teams?” Tunde was disappointed.
“Look at the pot calling kettle black.” Cecilia said.
“Cecilia, have you seen a stupid person before?” Tunde looked at Cecilia for affirmation. “Look at the mirror.”
“But it's unfair; he's our mate and forever remains our mate for crying out loud; even those that repeated, they still pally with us. No wonder he looked sad and disappointed. No matter how terrible he plays, you guys should've encouraged him and carried him along; there are no superficial memories more profound than these common things we do for ourselves while we're in school. You guys insulted him and spat on the integrity of the class for doing that.” Tope said.
“There's no price to be won other than self-gratification which would be there for only few seconds. But to deny a fellow that simple fulfillment which those that deprived him have almost forgotten, the sad memory will remain in his head for a life time; you guys are missing something.” Dolapo said.
“With all due respect,” Tunde paid homage to Kolawole “can anyone of you stop Kolawole from playing football in the field if he wants to play even though he doesn’t recognize a football if he sees one? Please, Kolawole I meant no offense. Chide is the youngest in this class but you can’t change the fact that he's our mate and should be respected.”
“I concur!” Deborah exclaimed.
“If you guys are discussing your case, don’t involve me in your childish talk,” Kolawole snarled defiantly.
“Thank God you know that you're a man.” Dolapo muttered.
“Ladies and gentlemen, fathers and mothers” Tope was mocking Kolawole by including fathers. “We ought to respect ourselves no matter how atomic or invisible someone’s stature might be; and for the record, I'm the only one that has the license to make G-man sad and I'm not ready or willing to share that privilege or proprietary right with any never do good person in this class; so back out everybody!” 
“Hey! Wait!” Tunde tried to calm the commotion. “Who in his insane state gave you that honour. G-man was once my seat mate and as much as I hate to be responsible for his welfare, I'm obliged to since he is fragile and prone to molestation by these naughty by nature mates of his.”
“State your point fool,” Tope gushed.
“What point is there to make; will you have Tunde make more folly of himself? Even you that ask the question, you're closer to being a clown than a wise gentleman.” Dolapo said. “Please, I'd have to beg you guys to respect Chide; what you did to him was unfair and unaccepted by the class panel in which I'm a president; even if you're supposed to win a trophy at the end of the game, it's better to extend an act of love and communion which will live with him forever by having him play and be happy than winning the game and leaving one member of the fold sad and depressed.”
“But it's a game that he's not good at; Chide doesn’t know how to play football and he's been spoiling the game for us.” 
“Am I the only one who has received this beatific vision to recognize the fool among us or there is someone else. Akin, you're a classical Idiot to have said that. What kind of football do you know how to play; do you even have a jersey number; are you not a freelancer on the pitch?” 
“By free-lancer, Tope means a line's man; just to expose you to classified terminologies as civilization is concerned; you know what I’m saying?” Tunde interrupted Tope with American slangs.
Everybody laughed and even Chide laughed; they succeeded in cheering him.
“Truly, we're the only ones responsible for ourselves as classmates and that bond should be strong; Thank God Chide is happy now. We shouldn’t wash our dirty linens outside. We can tease ourselves but we should protect our interest outside to keep our reputation intact. What you guys did would make the junior students have the tendency to disrespect Chide.”
“Deborah, please tell Akin with his wide mouth like a crocodile.” Dolapo snarled.
They all laughed but the laughter had to die down quickly as Mr. Rasheed was passing. No one would suspect that a class which was more or less like a market place could be this quiet. They were really good in comporting themselves to avoid suspicion.
CHAPTER TEN
The students in the entire school were supposed to go to their various clubs and societies; it was Friday and the time was 1:30 pm and no student should be seeing idle staying in their various classes. Mr. Rasheed was usually active in such days and had a club which he termed ‘suffocating club’ and it was meant for those caught staying idle in their classes and attempting to dodge active participation in any club or society.
Fortunately, the students got to know that Mr. Rasheed didn’t come to school today and they had investigated and confirmed and were assured beyond reasonable doubt that he didn’t come. Dolapo went as far as asking the form master of SS3B the reason for Mr. Rasheed not coming to school; he seemed to be showing concern but wanted to be really sure to avoid surprises in case he would remain in the class and wouldn’t attend any club and Mr. Rasheed would eventually appear. 
“Ladies and gentlemen I'm pleased to announce to you that Mr. Rasheed didn’t come to school today; I verified and was told that he wasn’t feeling fine. There's no freedom that could compare the awareness that Mr. Rasheed is not in this school environment.” Dolapo gushed in excitement.
“What do you mean by that? Are you telling us that you're practicing dark magic and have conjured some evil spirit to torment Mr. Rasheed thereby inflicting him with the illness he's suffering from; else why would you be excited that he is sick?” Tope insinuated.
“Bro, if someone like Mr. Rasheed is sick; it's the spirit of God that has finally won the furious battle. The devil would never allow that man to be sick so that he'd torment the children of God. I’m talking from the prophetic perspective now; if the spirit of the divine can finally get that man down it means God is really great. I'm tired of this club and society nonsense.” Tunde jabbered.
Some of the members of the class that were heads of their various societies and clubs left the class for their societal and club meetings. Those that remained in the class were making noise and chatting away although some still attempted to read. Some of the boys were so courageous and comfortable that they were playing football inside the class; while others were writing on the blackboard and drawing funny pictures that were nothing but a derogatory and miserable looking animations and tagging the drawings to be their classmates who had gone out for societal and club meetings thereby not around to react. 
Tunde after drawing series of diagrams drew a diagram on the blackboard and those that watched him as he was drawing it admired the creative animation and were amused at the funny features of the diagram. They had to pat those that were carried away as they were engaged in one discussion or another to look at the diagram on the blackboard and they laughed unceasingly. Those that were studying inside the class who backed the blackboard to avoid distraction were unfortunately distracted with the laughter and turned back to see the cause of the amusement; they laughed on seeing it too. Some students in SS3A and C also came inside the class as they heard the loud laughter from SS3B and were amused to see what Tunde drew on the blackboard.
Tope was quick to tag the diagram Tunde drew (having a gigantic and shabby looking head and a thin and shrunken legs with a tiny waist and protruded stomach that could barely sit for a second on the slim waist which should resemble nothing but an unimaginable creature that was a mere subject of fiction) as Chide. Tunde thus wrote Chide’s name boldly under the diagram with bold calligraphy and everybody in the class laughed in mockery. Chide seemed to be the smallest in the class and couldn’t react and pose any contending defense to refute Tope and Tunde’s derogatory remark. Although they were good friends, they wouldn’t stop teasing him. This wasn’t the first time Tunde and Tope would make a mockery of him and it wouldn’t be the last time. They claimed to be the only legitimate guys that had a license to tease Chide and nobody else. Chide had always wished he was bigger; Dolapo was always complimenting and assuring him that he had increased with some inches. It sounded derogatory but Chide loved being reassured that he had added some height. He wouldn’t want to have the feeling that he was a dwarf. Tope and Tunde usually assured him since they were in junior class that he wasn’t a dwarf even though they made caricature of his stature to amuse the class. Everybody in the class always marveled at the dynamic nature of their friendship; they would be the ones to tease themselves and would at the same time laugh after few minutes of attacking themselves and speaking derogatorily of themselves.  
Tunde gave him the name ‘ground man’ meaning he was too short and was some inches away from the ground. Tunde gave him the name when they resumed in JSS1 and everybody in the class began calling him ‘ground man’ until date. They name prevailed all these while since Chide would cry and feel bitter anytime he was called “groundy or ground man”. 
Students seemed to be willing to identify their colleagues with names they didn’t like and loved to demean their classmates; however if Chide was comfortable with the name and wasn’t sad but willing to identify himself with the name, there wouldn't have been any fun in calling him the name since there would be no favorable tears and expected hurt feelings seen as such the name wouldn’t have prevailed; although they later started calling him “G-man” which was an acronym for the former nickname. 
Tunde and Tope attempted to discourage others from calling him ‘ground man’ but didn’t succeed; they resorted to becoming active in defending Chide by insulting other members of the class that called Chide ‘ground man’. They finally gave up when Chide became comfortable with the name. 
Tunde and Tope had never stopped been troublesome in the class and would always want to be in charge of the class whenever there was no teacher in the class. They would mimic how teachers teach, walk and their various clichés. They tried to be attentive to observe the gestures exhibited by all the teachers that were teaching them so that they would get an accurate demonstration of their posture though in a funny and demeaning way whenever there was no teacher in the class. The habit had helped them to be average students in the class even though they weren’t studious.  
The students were making caricatures of themselves although none of them would dare ridicule Kolawole; they called him “the beast” though not in his presence but behind him. He looked muscular and was the oldest in the class though wasn’t troublesome. 
Tunde added mustache and goatee on the diagram and indicated on the head a place for a bald head. The diagram became really despicable and funny. 
“The name doesn’t match the diagram again.” Tope gushed.
“Who does this diagram resemble?” Tunde asked amusingly.
“That picture is not bad for Mr. Rasheed.” Dolapo snapped amusingly and the students laughed and Chide who wasn’t happy initially due to the tagging also laughed. Tunde and Tope smiled as they saw their friend Chide laughing; Chide also understood that they were trying to amuse the class and weren’t really intending to offend him.
“Mr. Rasheed is too old for this diagram. Who else does this diagram on the blackboard resemble?” Tunde asked. Tunde seemed to have somebody in his mind to have added those features.
Everybody looked around to see those present in the class; Chide also looked around to be sure that Kolawole wasn’t in the class; he looked around the window and also peeped beside the window and door to check if he was close by. He was satisfied that he wasn’t anywhere close to hearing range. He smiled as the thought came to his mind. “The diagram resembles Kolawole.” He whispered and everybody laughed uncontrollably; those who were reading initially and wouldn’t want to pay attention to the distraction after the first one were lured to turn back as the heard Chide’s voice tagging a diagram as Kolawole on the blackboard. 
“Chide you have the nerve to call this despicable diagram Kolawole!” Wale who was reading growled. “You're lucky Kolawole went out for club and societal meetings, else he would have beaten you to death today.”
Chide on hearing what Wale said became remorseful. 
“The day Wale will stop being stupid, I'll declare free food for everybody in the market square during recess.” Tope snarled and everybody laughed.
“You're joking; you can’t feed everybody in the market square, can you?” Chide seemed amazed.
“That's why Wale will always remain stupid.” Tunde said as he cleaned ‘Chide’ from the diagram and wrote ‘Kolawole’.
“If Kolawole were to be in the class, you wouldn’t dare do that because you'll be afraid.” Adeleke teased Tunde. 
“I know you'll say that! I don’t know the kind of reading those guys are pretending to read there.” Dolapo was referring to Wale, Adeleke, and Yinka. 
“Don’t mind those Judases; they have to be told that now is time for creativity before they'll know they're doing the wrong thing.” Cecilia snarled.
“We're in school to study and that's what we're doing rather than laughing and wasting our time.” Yinka blustered.
“Suit yourself.” Cecilia dismissed him.
“Who is Kolawole that everybody speaks of him as if he's a god.” Tope gushed.
“Kolawole is that old man that is the patron and Grandmaster of young farmer’s club.” Tunde gushed. 
“Nobody should dare frighten Chide for calling a spade a spade; look at this diagram closely, you'll see the original Kolawole, not the impersonated copy that went for young farmer’s club. The true image of the ‘beast’” Tope jabbered and everybody burst into laughter.
“So these guys think we're afraid of Kolawole; yes, we understand that he must have been farming in the village and have been married with children who could be our age mates in this class, but that doesn’t mean I should be afraid of him even though he looks like a masquerade.” Tunde gushed.
“Are you saying that we can call him ‘Pappy’? From his biography, I've realized that he could be our Dad.” Cecilia gushed amusingly.
“SSCE has no respect for persons else considering the calibre of his personality and stature; he should have been awarded distinction without seeing the four walls of this class since he desires to learn even though age has become his worst enemy.” Dolapo gushed.
“Do you know the number of SSCE exams he must have written to be this old in this class?” Tunde asked.
“Tunde has really dug into this guy’s past. Tunde please intimate us on your findings.” Tope said.
“I'm honoured; Kolawole has written SSCE for more than ten consecutive times. The only problem I'm having is that SSCE board members have been unfair not to recognize his effort and award him a Nobel Prize for being a faithful customer.”  
Everybody laughed at Tunde’s comment.
“He is indeed the first to break the Guinness world record for writing SSCE for that long duration. He has many titles that he's supposed to collect.” Tope gushed.
“The first time he came to this class, I felt he's Chide’s father.” Dolapo prattled.
“Chide is too young to be among his children; Dolapo resembles him more than Chide and the first day he entered this class, he went to where Dolapo was sitting and I thought you did something at home and your Dad came to school to spank you.” Tope jabbered.
“You guys are being unfair to your classmate and it’s not good.” Funmi said.
“We know that you admire him, but let me warn you, he already has a wife and children that senior you so I'll beg that you stop admiring that old man.” Tunde joked.
“I don’t blame you.” She snarled.
It was 2:00 pm and the bell went for school activities to close for the day; Kolawole and other members of the class that attended the various meetings for clubs and societies came into the class and saw the diagram on the blackboard and laughed. Kolawole saw it and was angry. He wasn’t happy that his name was used to identify such despicable figure on the blackboard.
“Who drew this and wrote my name on it?” He asked.
None of those that were in the class answered; everybody was just looking at him as he spoke with rage and anger. 
“Who drew this image on the blackboard and used my name to label it?” He asked for the second time.
“Are you the only one in this world bearing Kolawole?” Tunde asked him.
“Even my dog at home is bearing Kolawole, and this Kolawole which you see on the blackboard belongs to my dog at home except you want us to use your name to make reference to the image. But you'll have to pay for that favour.” Tope gushed and everybody laughed uncontrollably.
He was angry; he would have loved to slap him on his face but fighting was prohibited by the school authority and if he would insist on fighting, he would have to contend with two brothers which would be tough for him. He picked his bag from the class and angrily left the class and the class members all laughed.
“You guys better stop this thing; you have to respect him.” Funmi beseeched.
“Is he too old to understand that we're joking with him?” Tunde gushed.
“Old age has a way of transforming people.” Dolapo said amusingly. “Let’s be going before the security man locks us inside the school again.”
They had been locked inside the school before; when they were serving punishment given them by Mr. Rasheed for noise making. The recipients of the punishment were Tunde, Tope, Dolapo, Chide and Cecilia. Mr. Rasheed after beating them mercilessly, told them to kneel at the front of the class with their hands lifted up and eyes closed; that day was like a taste of hell for them and while they were serving the punishment, they resolved never to make noise in their entire life again, a resolution which they soon forgot. Those that saw Mr. Rasheed left the school told them that he had left and must have forgotten that he gave them punishment but they were afraid to believe and they remained on the spot where they knelt for more than one hour only to go out and discover that the school was empty and the gate was already closed. They had to jump over the fence as the security men were nowhere to be found.
CHAPTER ELEVEN
The Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination was in three weeks’ time and teaching for the SS3 students wasn’t really tedious any longer; the students were given more time to revise and engage in group studies. However, SS3B students were still active in their noise making and Dolapo, as well as the twins, were still championing the campaign. Those that desired to study had to go to the library to study else the gyration in the class would distract them from attaining anything tangible. Dolapo and his crew were indeed fortunate to have been paying attention and closely observing the gestures of each and every teacher that came to the class to teach even though their motives had always been to mimic the teachers when they must have left the class.
Their dispositions and intentions helped them to understand the topics that were explained during the revision periods as they listened attentively to what each subject teacher revised with them. They were very sharp and brilliant and they could catch what was taught and how the teacher was teaching. They were thus average students and often times those that claimed to be studious had lower grades than them. They only had slight issues with the mathematics teacher whose teaching was boring and tiresome.
The form master of SS3B Mr. Dele came late to the class to take the record of the students’ attendance. He was disappointed as he entered the class and saw some of the students chatting away as they sat in groups and others sleeping. The class looked scanty thus some seats were empty; he suspected that some students must have gone to the library to study. 
“What are you guys doing there?” Mr. Dele asked as he entered the class.
“Group studies Sir.” Dolapo muttered.
“I don’t see what you’re doing to be group studies but group chatting; do you know your SSCE examination is just a week away?”
“Three weeks Sir to be precise.” Cecilia muttered.
“Even though it's three weeks; do you think there’s still time to chat away? No time is too early or late to study and no amount of studies can be satisfactory or enough. Education often makes us seem insufficient, you can never acquire all; as such it humbles you when you realize that it's never enough; there's no time in our being when we stop learning and in your existence as students when you should stop reading especially at this moment. Everything you study at this moment of your life matters; your brain at this stage is not preoccupied with mundane things and responsibilities so you ought to load it with academic work. Now is the time to build yourself, widen your horizon and scope, expand your vocabulary and project your vision through useful production and activities. There’s nothing good that can come out of noise making when you're not a journalist yet. And even if you want to become a journalist, you have to start building yourselves now and enjoy reading.” 
“Dolapo, go to the library and call those students that are not in the class.” Dolapo stood up and left the class.
“If you start building yourselves up early enough, a time will come that people will respect you for being eloquent and outspoken; they will be intimidated and afraid of you for being confident. However, if you fail to acquire the necessary knowledge now, you'll become timid and defensive in the nearest future and you won’t like yourself for being that way; that's what makes good and kind people become aggressive and suspicious; they will see the world around them to be intimidating and will be angry with the world and the people in it for not being considerate and accommodating. You won’t be given any space; you just have to endure being relegated. People can sympathize but it won’t be long; nobody will understand that you don’t know when you ought to know.  People don’t tolerate mediocre minds for long, the world wants you to always offer something and if there is nothing there for you to offer, you will be discarded and left alone with little or no penny.” 
He went outside and peeped at the staff room to see what was happening there; the teachers seemed to be waiting for a meeting. He came back to the class.
“People will encourage you that there is no age too late for you to learn; I won’t deny that, but there’s a stage that you ought to have some fundamental and basic knowledge else you will be classified as myopic and incompetent. At that stage, when others are progressing and perfecting themselves to be better than average, you will have to withdraw and try to catch up as such you will always be behind which could be the genesis of your poverty story. You are open to learning from experience, but different people interpret different things and the way you interpret events around you determines the impact it'll have on you. People that have acquired functional and quality skills will take more from life as they'll see opportunities in all occurrences around them. Whereas if you waste your time and ignored the basic and fundamental skills needed to be acquired, you'll always be overwhelmed with fear and guilt when experience pounces on you and you'll be blind to opportunities.”
Mr. Dele signaled Dolapo and all the students that went to the library to study to come inside the class as they had been waiting at the door and seeking permission to come in. 
“You guys have to have a quiet moment for yourselves and figure out what you really want to make out of your life; anticipation and expectation had succeeded in making life short; you'll think that there’s enough time available as you’ve been deceived to assume that you can attempt all the possibilities around you; but the moment you engage yourself in one endeavour and should that one become unsuitable for your person someday, you’ve wasted a better part of your life. When you find yourself, you'll have to start afresh when others are perfecting themselves. People will tell you that no knowledge is wasted but what will be the use for it when you're not proud of it and don’t appreciate it. People can only know the stuff you're made of from your composure.”
“So how do you choose your career? Before I answer that, I would like to know the career choice of each and every one of you in this class. So we'll start from those sitting at the right corner of the back seat.”
Dolapo ‘engineer’; Cecilia ‘medical doctor’; Tope ‘police man’ and everybody laughed when Tope said he wanted to become a police man. 
Tunde ‘prophet and musician’ “Fuji” everybody shouted and they laughed. Chide ‘engineer’; Wale ‘engineer’; Akin ‘pilot’; Adeleke ‘medical doctor’; Yinka ‘medical doctor’; before Kolawole would speak; Tope said ‘die’ and the class burst into laughter. Tope was fortunate that Mr. Ola didn’t understand what he said. Kolawole ‘mechanized farmer’; Bisi ‘biochemist’; … Deborah ‘scientist’; Funmi ‘I don’t know Sir; I haven’t figured it out yet.” 
Mr. Dele was surprised to hear Funmi who was completing her secondary school education said that. “What are you waiting for that you're yet to figure it out?”
Funmi was ashamed and didn’t know how to appropriately answer the question Mr. Dele asked. “I don’t know sir.”
“Didn’t you write Jamb?”
“I wrote sir.”
“Which course did you choose?”
“I chose electrical electronic engineering.”
“Then why did you say you don’t know the career you’ll love to become in future?”
“I'm not sure if that's what I want; I chose it because my Dad is my model and wants me to study what he studied in the university.”
Mr. Dele didn’t want to go further in interrogating her; he understood that she was becoming embarrassed and he wouldn’t want her to become uncomfortable in the class as some of the students were laughing.
“Okay, you guys made wonderful choices and unfortunately I didn’t hear any of you saying he or she aspires to be like me; do you want schools to lack teachers since none of you will like to teach? Anyway, I would want you to ask yourselves these questions: what am I very good at doing? What do I find ease doing amidst commotion, distraction, and tension? What do I do effortlessly? What do I find fulfillment in delivering and why do I want people to identify me with a particular kind of creativity? Why do I want the world to respect me as this particular person with this single talent which I would love to show the world? What do I want to do that would make me feel on top of the world? What kind of service do I want to render to humanity that is gainful to me and nourishing to my soul? What do I indulge myself in that time, energy and space are never limiting factors? You ought to ask yourselves all these questions before pursuing a career. Most times you would want to consider the financial independence, prestige, portfolio and concerns from your family members, peers and mentors before choosing a career at the expense of the inner force that really pushes you; you may at the same time find yourselves in these preferred choices at a point in the career even though you didn’t initially desire it. However, before you choose a career, you ought to listen attentively to your inner self, understand what really motivates and drives you; security doesn’t necessarily have a place at the initial discernment; what you consider is the little spark of fulfillment and the undying conviction even as odds and criticism seem to prevail. The world is a balance pedestrian and reserves a space for every kind of creativity; your duty is to find yourself and place in it or be lost.”
Funmi raised her hand to ask a question; Mr. Dele seeing her hand gave her an audience.
“What if you don’t really have a talent and you don’t really desire any particular field, can you follow anyone your guardian suggests for you?” 
“Not having a particular drive for something means you can fit into all aspects; but is that possible? I don’t think so. It is just like knowing your ability and choosing whether to be in science, social science, art or commercial class; you can know the force that pushes you from your likes and dislikes, competence, efficiency and even determination since you can’t achieve anything worthwhile without giving all to it. Any endeavour you project a vision inside can be your career; with the vision which is yours to see, there would be persistence, consistent improvement, relentless effort, and self-motivation. Often times you don’t need to acquire extensive knowledge to exhibit your talent, you don’t need to endure the rigorous training in music, art, dancing, even in some professional fields to perform them efficiently; you'll discover that it's innate and you just need a little guidance.”
“Excuse me sir” Dolapo raised his hand.
“Yes,” Mr. Dele gave him an audience.
“What of those that have dreams to become footballers and superstar musicians and end up wasting their time training or going for auditioning and yet do not succeed, are they living unfulfilled lives?”
“Is the primary source of fulfillment in an endeavour being self-sufficient to provide you with financial security? Then you can as well choose any career and be fulfilled if there’s money to be made in it. People are professional footballers and musicians thus they earn a means of sustenance from it but you still see them investing in other businesses to ensure security. You can play football or sing for pleasure and fulfillment, and acquire a good degree and get a job for security; you're achieving the same thing with the professional footballer only in different ways. At times you ought to have a contingency plan since dreams can become futile too; education is all encompassing, and it cuts across every sphere of life; you ought to find your dreams or associate your dreams to one of the fields education provides; you can never lose when you have a dream and you’re sufficiently educated. However, there is always a way to go about your dreams if you pay close attention and dedicated yourself totally to it. And you don’t have to seek assurance from the world to determine your fulfillment else you won’t be fulfilled.”
“What if your parents don’t support the career you’ve chosen?” Chide asked.
“Then you give them a reason to, through your output; at times your parents want to be sure that you know what you want and you’re not being pushed by youthful exuberance. You may not discover yourself fully now since you’re vibrant and agile thus having many fantasies but I assure you that you'll discover yourself in time; don’t worry, your parents will support you when the time comes, when they see the glaring prospect.” He smiled as he looked at their faces. “Enough of this dream and vision stuff let me take your attendance; we're supposed to have a meeting in the staff room with the principal.”
He took the attendance of the students in the class and he arranged his register which was almost worn-out. “Please, you have to read and prepare yourselves for the challenging task ahead. You don’t have to wait for tomorrow to begin to read, begin now as I’m leaving the class.” He took a deep breath. “There’s nothing as good and fulfilling as being paid and appreciated for doing what you love doing. Have a nice day.”
Mr. Dele left the class and Dolapo stood up and walked to the front of the class. He took the chalk and wrote on the blackboard. “A word is enough for the wise; back out noise makers and allow me to focus!”
“Why do people hate themselves like this; people are often not privileged to know who their enemies are but you're fortunate to know yours.” Tunde gushed.
“Who could this Dolapo’s enemy be, prophet Tunde?” Tope asked. 
“Dolapo should look in the mirror.” Tunde said amusingly.
Everybody in the class laughed and Dolapo was dumbfounded. “Tunde got you big time today.” Cecilia laughed as Dolapo came back to his seat. 
CHAPTER TWELVE
Funmi resolved not to watch any Mexican, Indian or American movie again at least not this period that she would begin SSCE in three days’ time. She prepared dinner quickly after observing siesta and revising her notebooks when she came back from school. She washed all the dishes and set her father’s supper on the dining table. She wouldn’t want any distraction whatsoever and would want to give her undivided attention to her studies.
She finished right on time as scheduled and sat on the dining table to begin to read at 7:00 pm; she kept to her resolution and was really focused on the topic she was studying in physics; she continued to study and was solving some problems in ‘mechanics’. It wasn’t tough for her to find the solution to the problems she was solving since she was attentive when the topic was taught by the physics teacher who gave an elaborate explanation of the topic in the class. 
She looked at the wall clock and noticed that the time was some minutes to 8:00 pm; it was time for a Mexican programme she always loved to watch. She remembered that she made a firm resolution not to watch any movie during this period of examination again and she had been faithful to it until now; she tried to deny the desire but it was compelling. She began to remember every scene that happened in the last episode and the music that introduced the programme began to resound inside her head. It wasn’t easy for her to concentrate anymore. 
She began to feel a compelling push to turn on the television as the minute hand of the clock kept ticking towards 8:00 pm; the physics textbook she kept before her on the table was more or less a blank page at the moment. The melody of the music that accompanied the programme wouldn’t stop ringing inside her head. She wished she wasn’t preparing for an examination. She continued glancing through the textbook even though the topic she was reading didn’t make sense anymore; she resolved to read another topic and she opened a simpler topic which was on ‘motion’. 
She stared at the content of the topic and tried to memorize it but wasn’t getting any line; her attention was really divided and she continued to imagine what would be happening in the episode that would be televised today. She finally resolved to watch the first programme that would last for the duration of one hour. She quickly abandoned the textbook on the dining table and went to the sitting room; she switched on the television. She switched on the television at the exact time as the programme was just beginning. 
Funmi sat in the parlour and was attentive to every scene displayed in the programme she was watching on the television. Mr. Abiodun had to knock repeatedly and louder for her to notice that someone was at the door and immediately she opened the door for her father, “Welcome Dad” she greeted him, and couldn’t wait for him to reply the greeting before she strode back to the same spot she was sitting and staring at the programme.
“Funmi and movie is something else.” He said smiling as he entered the parlour after locking the door. He didn’t want to distract Funmi from her movie as such didn’t ask any more question again but went inside the bedroom instead to take his bath and be refreshed before he would come to eat dinner. 
Immediately Funmi finished watching the programme, the desire to watch the second programme arouse in her; the desire to read thus became a distraction at the moment. She resolved to watch the second programme. She continued to sit in the same spot she had been sitting and was really enjoying the suspense.
“Hope you'll still have the strength to read after watching that programme? The time is almost 09:30 pm.” Mr. Abiodun said as he came out of the room.
“The programme is almost over.” She said still starring at the television.
Mrs. Iyabo came back from work and Funmi didn’t hear the sound of her car as she parked in the garage. Mrs. Iyabo had her key and she didn’t usually knock on the door before coming inside the house since she usually came back from work very late. She opened the door and came inside the house and Funmi who was carried away by the movie didn’t notice her when she came in. Mrs. Iyabo was amazed to see Funmi watching television when she was supposed to begin her SSCE examination within the week.
“Switch off that television!” she snarled. “What is wrong with you; are you not the one starting your exams tomorrow? When you're supposed to be reading, you're wasting your time watching television. I keep telling you that if you fail your WAEC exam I won’t register you for the second time.” she sputtered and was very disappointed.
Funmi shuffled and turned off the television. “I won’t fail; is it every time that somebody has to be reading?” She muttered as she left the parlour.
“Let me not see you attempt to sleep anytime soon since you’ve wasted the time you should read watching movies, the time you should have used to sleep would be cut short. Raise your legs and be smart.”  Mr. Iyabo shouted at Funmi as she was tottering.
“My exam isn’t tomorrow but in three days’ time.” She muttered.
“What did you say? Are you talking while I'm talking?” Mrs. Iyabo snarled and was aggressively walking towards Funmi to probably spank her but Mr. Abiodun came out of the bedroom having heard her voice and greeted her which calmed her temper.
“You and Funmi will blow this roof off one day; what's the problem this time?” Mr. Abiodun beseeched.
“You're the one spoiling this girl; you’re at home and you allowed her to be watching movies when she has exams.” Mrs. Iyabo snapped defiantly and went inside the bedroom.
Mr. Abiodun was perplexed and stared at Funmi as she sat on the dining table to study. He shook his head in disapproval and disappointment as he turned and went back inside the bedroom; he wasn’t happy with Mrs. Iyabo’s strictness and temperament. 
Funmi would never take her mother’s threat for granted and she understood that her mother would be meticulously observing her to ensure that she didn’t sleep off. The night was indeed a long night for she would have to be awake and study until her mother would be satisfied. She sat on the dining table and continuously studied and her mother often came out at intervals in the night to check on her in order to ascertain that she wasn’t dozing off. Mrs. Iyabo wouldn’t want to sleep deeply since she was conscious that she had to be observing Funmi else she would sleep off and wouldn’t read; worst still, she usually woke up in the mid night to engage in her prayer devotion which made it easy for her to regulate Funmi. Funmi had to be active as she didn’t know the exact time her mother would come out and check on her.
She was tempted to sleep when her mother was praying around 12:00 am to 1:00 am but was afraid of not waking up before 1:00 am; she understood that when her mother engaged in prayer, she would remain praying until she exhausted the dedicated one hour; she wouldn’t tolerate any interruption or divided attention when communing with God as such Funmi knew she could utilize that time to sleep. It was luring but the probability of waking up before 1:00 am would be a risk she couldn’t afford to take. However, she tried hard to stay awake but unfortunately dozed off some minutes to 1:00 am.
Mrs. Iyabo came out after she finished praying and saw her sleeping on the dining table. “A child who says her mother will not sleep, she too will never sleep.” She muttered as she slapped Funmi on her head. Funmi woke up quickly frightened.
“Get up and read; nobody will tolerate failure in this house.” 
Mrs. Iyabo stood beside her for few minutes observing her as she painstakingly began to read and later paced to the parlour and sat on the chair. Funmi was really disgusted and tired and wished her mother went inside the bedroom. Mrs. Iyabo lay on the couch and slept off. It was 2:10 am and Funmi who was still struggling to be awake stood up from the seat she was sitting and went to the kitchen where she fetched water inside a cup and washed her face to fully regain herself. She came back and sat down.
“Where are you coming from?” Mrs. Iyabo who seemed to be sleeping was still observant.
“I went to wash my face.” 
“When you're watching movies, you won’t want to go and wash your face; now that you ought to be awake to study, you choose to distract yourself by going to wash your face. Sit down there and study.” She snarled and Funmi sat down with a sad countenance and began to flip through the textbook on the table. She couldn’t imagine any punishment that was commensurate to this given her by her mother and she wished she was lying on her bed at the moment. She grumbled and sighed continuously and wasn’t comfortable as she was finding it hard to stay awake. 
Mrs. Iyabo stood up at 3:00 am and shook her head as she saw Funmi dozing off. “Stand up; go inside and sleep; the next time I catch you still watching any movie during this examination period, I'll compel you to study until morning. You know I can do that, don’t you?”
Funmi was very tired and had to shuffle as she entered inside to sleep. She didn’t dare to turn on the television again during the examination period.  
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
The SS3 students had begun their SSCE and they had finished their practical examinations last week; they were supposed to begin their theoretical examinations this week and they had Chemistry today. The students sat some distance away from the hall and some were revising their textbooks while others were discussing and attempting to guess the probable questions that may come out as they used the past questions and answers booklet as a guide.
Dolapo and his crew sat in the market square and were staring at the hall to observe what was happening.
“If I enter that exam hall with an empty stomach, I may end up not writing anything.”  He told the woman selling to give him a biscuit and soft drink.
“Didn’t you eat from the house?” Chide asked.
“That's a long time ago; now is time to reload the engine.” 
“Me too, I'll need to take something else the little that I studied will evaporate and leave me with the ceiling to stare at.” Tope told the woman selling to give him soft drink and snacks too.
“But there's no ceiling in the hall.” Chide said.
“There will be an imaginary one when I see a question I didn’t prepare for.”
Tunde came from the class and met them eating in the market square. “Why are you guys eating? You don’t know that you'll recall faster and propel your brain to think efficiently and remember accurately when you are light?” Tunde said.
“If that's the case then I don’t want to be smart. I can’t sit for exams on an empty stomach because I won’t recognize a question paper when I see one.” Dolapo gushed.
“You guys are not romantic at all; can’t you be persuasive for once? Mama, please give me mineral and biscuit.” Tunde beseeched.
“Chide are you not taking something?” Dolapo asked.
“I don’t want to take anything; I'm good for now.” 
“Are you sure that statement is not coming from your enemy inside you? Do you want to write today's paper on an empty stomach?” Tunde asked.
“I'm not hungry.” 
“Okay. Bro, we're just trying to be good friends.” Tope ranted.
“Did you manage to finish the syllables?” Dolapo asked.
“This guy is funny.” Tope laughed. “Am I the subject teacher? I read the part that I feel may likely come out and if it doesn’t come out, I'll have to set my own questions and answer them very well and resort to prayer to touch the examiner's mind.”
Tunde saw the external invigilator entering the school with the question papers. “This man comes on time as if he's the one writing the exam; won’t he give us a break to revise?” 
“What have you been doing for the past 6 years? Even though they give you more 10 years, you'll still demand for more time if the choice is in your hands.” Dolapo gushed.
“It is best we just write the exams and finish it than continue to confuse ourselves the more claiming to be revising.” Chide pointed at those seriously revising and trying to memorize what they had read by looking up and reciting what the studied, and they laughed.
“Look at Kolawole still reading?” Dolapo gushed.
“That man reads every time; I wish he's my seat mate in the exam hall.” Chide said.
“Some people read like that and can’t write anything when the question paper is placed before them so you don’t have to be intimidated by what they're doing; we'll know their true potentials when they're writing.” Tope said. 
“I strongly believe that Kolawole won’t raise his head after the question paper is given to him until he finishes today.” Dolapo said.
“Is that something incredible that no one can do? I can decide to bend my head and write nonsense and jargons until I exhaust the time and people around me will think I’m writing something meaningful.” Tope said.
They hurriedly drank their soft drinks and walked close to the examination hall; they stood by the side of the balcony waiting to be inspected and searched by the invigilators. The invigilators wanted to ensure that none of the students carried any paper inside the examination hall with the intention to cheat. The teachers doing the searching were thoroughly checking their school uniforms, scandals and berets, and only permitted them to carry a pen that they would use to write during the examination. 
“Why won’t these people trust us just one time?” Funmi who was waiting for her turn to be inspected muttered. 
“Why would they trust us when they haven’t finished trusting themselves?” Deborah gushed and they all laughed.
“I keep wondering how they know all these strategic points where students could be hiding papers.” 
“Experience of course, they must have been invigilating for a long time and have experienced many dubious students.”
“Deborah, are you sure it's really through teaching experience?” Tunde muttered. “They must have done it when they were in school to know all these locations.” 
Everybody around them that was listening to their conversation laughed and the teachers noticed that they were chatting away. 
“You pack of scoundrels; what is happening there?” Mr. Rasheed noticed that the students were still many that hadn’t been inspected and if they should continue the thorough searching, they would likely begin the examination late. Therefore, the teachers weren’t meticulous in searching them, but allowed them entered the examination hall without scrupulous inspection.
They began the exam at 12:00 pm on the dot after they invigilators had shared the question papers. Some of the students smiled immediately they opened the question papers to begin the examination; however, some didn’t smile for long as the questions got tougher turning the pages. 
“I almost studied this topic but I was too tired to read it.” Tunde wasn’t finding some of the questions easy.
“That's what a lazy student will always say. Nearly does not kill a bird.” Cecilia who was sitting behind them said and they all laughed.
“Stop making noise while the examination is going on.” The external invigilator cautioned them.
While the examination was going on, Kolawole was really stranded; he didn’t know how to appropriately answer the questions; he was having conflicting answers inside his head. Perhaps, the questions weren’t what he expected and prepared for. Tunde and Tope observed that he had not been writing for a while now; Tunde tore a piece of paper from his question paper, rolled it into a ball-liked shape and stoned Dolapo; Dolapo was sitting some seats away from them. The paper hit Dolapo on his neck and Dolapo turned immediately. Tunde pointed at Kolawole to make Dolapo understand that he wasn’t writing anything. Dolapo laughed and used sign language to ask ‘why’ he wasn’t writing and Tunde used sign language as well to express ‘I don’t know!” 
The external invigilator and the teachers assisting in the invigilating seemed tired of standing and they went and sat down at the front discussing thus not really paying attention to the students; they must have thought that none of the students carried any external material like notebooks, textbooks or key points.
Kolawole observed that the teachers were distracted and there could be the possibility of him cheating unnoticed. He looked around to confirm if there was any teacher behind and there was none. He therefore opened the zip of his trousers and removed a chemistry textbook from his pants; he placed it on his laps and began to flip through to see the questions asked. He was very fast in searching and confident since the teachers were at the front and their attentions weren't really on them anymore. He saw the various pages where the questions came from and he was very fast in copying the answers.
Tunde turned and saw him writing fast; he was amazed that Kolawole who wasn’t writing before was writing fast and even turning to the next page to continue writing. He patted Tope and he turned and was also surprised to see Kolawole writing.
“It seems this guy has been waiting for the right time.” Tope said in admiration.
Tunde continued to observe him and noticed that he was looking down and writing simultaneously. He bent down to see what he was looking at and he saw a textbook on his lap.
“This guy is damn good!” He exclaimed on seeing the textbook. “Bro, are you seeing what I'm seeing?”
“Tunde, do I have to tell you that we're sitting on the keg of a gun powder and we may explode anytime soon? Your question paper is still empty.”
“I've got everything under control; please just look at Kolawole one last time.” 
Tope looked at Kolawole and didn’t notice anything unusual except that he was writing. 
“That guy can be writing anything so forget about what he's writing.” Tope tried to dismiss the distraction.
“Look with your spiritual eye and see again; that guy is using a photocopying machine.”
“What!” Tope exclaimed and looked again following Tunde’s direction and he whistled in astonishment as he saw the textbook. “This guy is a bad guy! That textbook is big; how did he bring it inside the examination hall?”
“Bro, that guy can bring an encyclopedia for English exam then.” Tunde marveled.
Cecilia and some students who were behind them were laughing as they heard the twins expressing their astonishment.
They finished the exam and came out of the examination hall; Dolapo was already outside waiting for the twins.
“Those guys in SS3A are terrible cheaters; they're doing malpractice like crazy. Some of them hid pieces of paper inside their trousers; they created openings on the folding under their trousers and hid the papers there. They're confident to bring it out and used it when those teachers were discussing at the front.” Dolapo wasn’t expecting that some students would be courageous to do that after the inspection and the invigilation that seemed strict.
“That's even small; Kolawole took New School Chemistry inside the exam hall.” Tunde gushed.
“New School Chemistry!”Dolapo was amazed. He used his right hand and touched Tunde’s face. “Are you sure you’re not suffering from high fever or hallucination; do you know how big New School Chemistry Textbook is?” Dolapo wouldn’t believe that Kolawole who seemed studious could cheat during examination worst still carry a textbook as big as that into the examination hall.
“Tunde is saying the truth. I saw it and you can confirm it from Cecilia and Chide.” Tope said.
“Guys have potentials; then what has he been reading?” Dolapo asked in amazement.
“Maybe he's been trying to get himself familiar with all the pages such that when any question comes that pertains to the topic he's glanced through he'd easily open to it.” Tope explained.
“There's no pride in cheating and there's no dignity in it; it's a deception against oneself.” Dolapo said.
“I'd rather fail than cheat to pass my exams; you can never succeed fully after cheating. Cheating is like trying to outplay nature - it would bounce back very hard someday and surprise you and when that day comes, you'll be exposed and gravely embarrassed and there'll be nowhere to seek consolation – nature would have blocked all the loopholes where solace could be assured before striking.” Chide said.
“I strongly believe that there's more fulfillment when you achieve something great without cheating; you'll appreciate the sacrifice and value the achievement and you'll also be proud of yourself for being victorious after enduring the inconveniences. There's nothing more fulfilling than a price won after giving in all you have.” Tunde said.
“Let’s forget about those guys; how was the exam?” Tope asked Dolapo.
“I've written it and I've moved on.” Dolapo wouldn’t want to think about the exams.
“That Organic part wasn’t funny.” Chide grumbled.
“Bro, you better move on too; there's no use crying over spilled milk.” Dolapo said as they strolled outside.
“I'll want to see what Kolawole will bring in for English language exam.” Tunde said.
“What will be more than Oxford Advance Learner’s dictionary and Encyclopedia? That man has truly gotten experience in writing WAEC.” Tope jabbered and they all laughed.
CHAPTER FOURTEEN
They had finished writing most of the subjects they registered in the SSCE examination. They were left with their last paper which was Geography. All the students came to school today filled with great enthusiasm and were excited that they would be done with SSCE. They had always envisaged this day. The external invigilator and the teachers assisting in the invigilation seemed reluctant to search the students; the initial enthusiasm was no longer alive and they seemed to be suffering from fatigue already.
The students entered the examination hall fully ready and eager to begin; they're more or less in haste and wanted to be quick to finish the examination and celebrate. Most of them brought scissors to rip their uniforms apart and some brought markers and paint to design their uniforms as a sign of freedom from the restraint of the school authority. As they awaited the question papers, they were busy ranting and were moving from one seat to another.
“Kolawole finally finished this SSCE exam cheating.” Tunde looked at Kolawole and was displeased.
“He's fortunate; he'd definitely cross this time and wouldn’t have to write SSCE again.” Tope said.  
“Who told you guys that he has written SSCE before?” Bola who was from SS3C asked.
“With this kind of cheating experience, you're still asking that kind of question? Kolawole is a gold medalist in cheating; the day I saw him with those textbooks during biology examination I understood that it wasn’t ordinary. He had like three textbooks and was comparing answers inside the examination hall before writing.” Tunde said.
“That can’t be possible; Tunde why do you exaggerate like that.” Funmi who was sitting beside them was distracted by their discussion and refuted Tunde’s statement.
“Tope am I lying?” Tunde sought for confirmation from Tope.
“What I keep wondering is how he usually maneuver those invigilators and take the materials inside the examination hall without being detected. Maybe he has an invisible ring that could be aiding him.” Tope said.
“That's why you shouldn’t admire him too much; anybody that may want to behave like him may be caught.” Funmi said.  
“I wonder the kind of textbook he would be with right now.” Tunde asked.
“He would probably have an atlas with him to identify mountains, Rainforest, Deserts and Continents.” Tope said.
The examination was about to begin and the external invigilator instructed them to organize themselves for the examination. Everybody went to their seats and sat quietly as they waited for the question papers to reach them in their various seats. The invigilator told them to start writing after they had all received the question papers. They were writing the examination in peace and quietness and the invigilator, as well as the teachers, remained in the front where they sat and were discussing and sharing their experiences.
They had almost exhausted the time for the examination when a supervisor from the SSCE office came into the hall after observing the students unnoticed outside; he walked straight to where Kolawole was sitting and told him to stand up. Kolawole hesitated but the supervisor reiterated by shouting at him to stand up. Kolawole stood up and the textbook on his lap fell on the floor. He was dumbfounded and perplexed. The supervisor bent down and took the textbook from the floor, collected his answer sheet and asked him to follow him. Kolawole followed him to the front of the hall where the invigilators were sitting; the supervisor gave him a slip to sign which he signed. He walked out of the hall embarrassed and disappointed. 
Everybody in the exam hall was filled with fear and disappointed at the incident; they wished Kolawole didn’t cheat and they were afraid that the reputation of the school would be at stake as such the school would have a bad image which would probably affect all of them. They became uncomfortable after the supervisor left and the external invigilator told them that Kolawole wouldn’t be expecting SSCE result and assured them that they wouldn’t be affected by his malpractice.
They finished the examination and came out of the examination hall sober; they still felt very sorry for Kolawole; Dolapo and his crew who were mocking Kolawole for cheating couldn’t help but pitied Kolawole. The students couldn’t jubilate and gyrate as planned since they were still skeptical about the invigilator’s assurance. They had been made to believe since junior class that when an external SSCE supervisor caught anybody cheating the entire center would suffer the consequence which could lead to cancellation of the result. They tried to cheer themselves up but it wasn’t working; they couldn’t help but remained pessimistic. 
“Bro, we would have confronted Kolawole when we saw him cheating?” Tunde was feeling remorseful.
“And you think he would have listened? That guy would have slapped you and before recovering you would have called him ‘uncle’ for over a million times.” Tope gushed.
“No, we'd have threatened him: maybe told him that if he didn’t stop, we'd report him to the school authority; now, look at the mess we’ve found ourselves in. We're not even sure if we'd be having an SSCE result.”
“Won’t you be happy that you have a perfect and considerable reason to fail this exam; this is the best reason I can give my mother as an excuse for failing else she'd skin me alive if I don’t pass in which from the survey, passing will be God’s divine favour. She didn’t stop complaining that I was playful and I never saw the reason to consider her advice until now that I discovered that I didn’t write any meaningful thing in all the papers.” Dolapo said.
“Seriously, that’s the bright side. Why do we even have to worry?” Chide seemed to have realized that they had gotten an excuse for their lackadaisical disposition towards studies.
“You guys shouldn’t worry; it’s not the end of life. People lose a fortune and still survive. Let me buy you guys drinks and let’s celebrate for graduating.” Dolapo gushed.
“No matter what, we're good for we didn’t cheat. So we ought to celebrate this graduation now because any other SSCE examination we write outside this will rather be a lesson and I don’t think it would be appropriate to celebrate it.” Chide said.
“There can never be any better friends than you guys, I'll definitely miss you guys like crazy.” Tope said.
"Please don't make me cry." Dolapo grimaced.
“That’s why we're friends, if there hasn’t been any memorable impact to be missed when we will no longer be together, the memory won’t linger. Let’s remain optimistic that our result will be great.” Chide said.
Dolapo removed a writing marker from his pocket and handed it to Tunde. “Write on my uniform: drop dead Mr. Rasheed.” 
“Dolapo, are you serious; what if he sees it?” Chide was amazed.
“And you think that after writing this on my uniform, I'll be strolling inside the school? Immediately it's written, I'll stride to the gate without turning back. And even if my mother is inside the school and calls me I won’t turn back.” Dolapo gushed.
“Thank God you know, else if any demon torments you and causes you to turn back, it will be your corpse that will be graduating.” Tope said.
“Write on my own that: the devil lives among us and if you're looking for him, you’ve seen Mr. Rasheed.” Tope said.
“You guys have nerves; Mr. Rasheed will be mad if he sees this.” Chide expressed fear.
“Chide, you fear too much; we’ve graduated for goodness sake and he doesn’t have any authority over us anymore. Let me hear you shout it loud and clear that we're free!” Tunde exclaimed as he was writing on their uniforms.
“Write on my own that: Tunde, Tope, and Dolapo will forever remain my best friends. Love for SS3B!” Chide turned and looked at them. “I'm beginning to miss you guys already.” 
“Don’t make me cry; we're still living in the same town and we can still visit each other.” Dolapo said.
Funmi, Cecilia, and Deborah passed them as they were strolling to the gate. They saw what was written on Dolapo’s back.
“Dolapo, do you want Mr. Rasheed to crucify you?” Funmi gushed laughing.
“That's if he can catch me; the Dolapo you see now won’t be seen in this compound in thirty seconds’ time.”
“I'll miss these guys and their jokes.” Cecilia said.   
“Mr. Gbenga always tells us that one second will be too much to see all our classmates again on the day we'll finish our final examination and leave the examination hall, some we'll never see again in this life, and we'll only hear stories of their death when we ask about them, and others, we'll meet on different platforms and social statuses but we should never forget the life we shared in school; and it’s only through that awareness that we'll be willing to assist ourselves to greater height.”
 “Funmi, you didn’t even forget a line from Mr. Gbenga’s exact statement; I didn’t remember that he said anything like that again until you made this statement.” Deborah was amazed.
“I have always anticipated and looked forward to this day especially when the last set was graduating; I felt that a day like this won’t come. We're even told when we were in JSS1 that before we graduate from secondary school, the world might have ended. Now look at us graduating and the world is still full of life and more expectations.” Cecilia said.
“I have always felt that a day like this won’t come; we can never be these same students again, sitting in the same class, chatting away,  laughing at ourselves, making caricature of teachers and being naïve; our mistakes can’t be overlooked and seemingly tolerated again; we have to be responsible, face challenges, meet expectations, be bold to take decisions and accept the consequences; as we will leave that opened gate today, we are no longer the children we used to be; we are now changed people. I'm still afraid and feel I’m not yet ready.”
“Chide, you don’t have to be afraid; there's nothing there to be afraid of when you don’t know what really lies ahead; we leap blindly and events unfold. There will be no fun and adventure if you know all there's to know about tomorrow. We want to live because life is full of surprises that can’t be unraveled totally. You can only prepare as best you can but you can never be sure if your preparation is enough. So it's a good thing to be afraid, it makes you careful but don’t let it overwhelm you since you ought to be open to adventures and the determination to embark on some risky enterprise that may yield.” Deborah said. 
Tunde finished writing on their clothes and he wrote it very bold that it could be vividly seen by anybody some distances away. He wrote Mr. Rasheed’s name very bold and anybody that saw it would understand that they had written something despicable about him even without reading the other inscriptions. 
They didn’t wait but began to walk very fast out of the school compound and Funmi, Cecilia, and Deborah followed them out of the school laughing. Students that saw what they wrote on their uniforms laughed uncontrollably. They went out when students were already on recess as such most of the junior students saw what they wrote and were amused.
No student would dare go to Mr. Rasheed to report what Dolapo and his crew wrote on their uniform against him; they felt there was no polite and appropriate ways to communicate it to Mr. Rasheed that wouldn’t seem insulting on their part.
CHAPTER FIFTEEN
The students’ results came out and many of them passed even Dolapo, Tunde, Tope, and Chide passed although with lower Cs; unfortunately, Kolawole’s result was canceled. Some got admission into the university and were given the courses the applied for in their JAMB examination while others were given alternative courses to compensate them for not reaching the cut-off marks for the courses they actually chose as first choice.
Funmi who applied for electrical electronic engineering due to her father’s persuasion got admitted in the University of Lagos to study EEE; she was really excited and was filled with passion and zeal to study the course and she probably believed that she would graduate with a first class honour. Deborah was also in the same university in the biological science department; Dolapo, Chide, Tope, and Tunde were in the Engineering College as well as other school mates and there were some of them in other faculties. Dolapo and Tope were in Electrical Electronic Engineering, Chide in Mechanical while Tunde in Computer engineering. Some of their school mates came in as diploma students and others as remedial students; while some went to other states and Federal Universities and also went abroad for studies.  
They were happy to hear of their excellence and also felt sympathy for some of their school mates who didn’t obtain good results in their Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination and had to re-register for the examination. 
Dolapo, Tope, Tunde, and Chide were sitting in the school cafeteria drinking soft drinks and eating snacks after they came out from a fixed lecture this evening. All the engineering students received their lectures together in their first year.
“I necessarily need to eat something solid; Dolapo, what did you prepare in your carbuncle? I’m relying on you for today’s supper” Tope said.
“I prepared mineral and biscuit and the last time I checked, you’ve eaten it.” 
“Dolapo, please don’t say that.” Tope beseeched; he's trying to be persuasive. “Do you want an official pronouncement to declare you as our distinguished chef? There you go, Tunde, make the declaration and swear him in.”
Tunde cleared his throat. “By the power vested in me by the school senate board of the University of Lagos though unconstitutional, I hereby pronounce DolapoLawanson the honourable title of ‘the distinguished and admirable chef’ of our noble crew whose duties are to be discharged with immediate effect and I wish to emphasize: ‘with immediate effect’ and most preferably this night.”
“Without further ado, I'm overwhelmed with gladness and indeed honoured to be vested with such a noble office; however, permit me to say that I lack the right disposition and will for the office. Therefore, it pains me deeply that I would have to transfer this mantle to my trusted compatriot who I know would be capable of such responsibility.”
“Who will this your anonymous friend be?” Chide was quick to ask.
“It's no other person than the elegant, phenomenal, brilliant, industrious, motivationally driven, goal oriented, civilized and erudite Chide.” 
“You guys are not serious!” 
“You've proven beyond reasonable doubt that you're the best; remember the concoction he gave us the last time we visited his room.”
“Men! That thing was poison; I almost unwillingly replaced my intestine with drugs that night after I ate that beans. I experienced the peak of diarrhoea that night; I became afraid when there's no difference between my urine and my feces.” Tunde said.
“I’ve always wished to bring the discussion up but anytime I see you I usually forget; Chide, what actually did you put inside that beans?”
Chide laughed. “I applied small sugar inside the beans.”
“Chide, you can kill bro!” Dolapo exclaimed. “I've retrieved all the titles and left only ‘cook’.”
They were laughing and Funmi who came out from the lecture hall and was going to the hostel stopped as she saw them sitting in the cafeteria; she diverted to where they were sitting.
“Funmi, what’s up?” Dolapo greeted.
“Fine; what is amusing you guys like this?”
“Nothing much, just looking for where we'll eat our supper this evening.” Tope said.
“Your coming has solved that puzzle.” Dolapo gushed.
“Where will I have the strength to cook after enduring this boring series of lectures?” 
“Are you not the one that chose to study engineering?” Chide asked.
“My father is an engineer.”
“And so, you applied for engineering?” Dolapo asked.
“Yes! There is prospect inside and since women are not really much in the field, there will be opportunities inside.” 
“Yes that's the truth, but there would be a lot of boredom you'll have to endure.” 
“Tunde, you're not even encouraging her at all; the best way to go about this engineering is to be studious and study the material before the lectures as well as study what is taught immediately after the lectures so that we'll become familiar with the terminologies. Else if we would want to wait and relax, it’ll become bulky and tiresome to study.” Chide said.
“This is the first time in Chide’s entirely miserable life that he has ever said something meaningful.” Tope gushed.
“We're no longer in secondary school and we really need to be focused and studious; but before we consider being focused, we have to live and only food can guarantee that. Funmi, preparing Indomie noodles won’t take anything from you; we’ve been taking snacks and eating fast food since and the only time we attempted eating something prepared by one of us, it almost caused us our lives.” Tunde blurted.
Chide looked at them scornfully appealing to them not to expose him.
“Okay, I'll prepare Indomie for you guys but that doesn’t mean that you'll be coming to my place to disturb me.” Funmi cautioned them.
“How about we give you money to buy food ingredients?” Chide suggested.
“No, I don’t have that time to be cooking for you guys.” 
“We'll be fools to be coming every time; how about we come some times?” Tope asked  
“No, you guys should go and make friends with other ladies that'll be cooking for you.” 
“That's a long process; before it comes to cooking for me, you'd have tried to make several impressions which would have been far cheaper with you. Do you know how many eateries I'll have to take the girl to before she starts cooking for me?” Dolapo said.
“And that will only be possible when she accepts to cook for you at all; she may say she's not the cooking type but the eating type; I’m not ready to tolerate somebody who will be attached to eating fast food and snacks, the intention will be defeated. That should be left for when I'll fall in love to tolerate many untold things.” Tope said.
“You guys are even forgetting the primary thing; where will the money come from for all these luxuries before she accepts to cook for you? We're just miserable first-year students.” Tunde said.
“You guys are very funny; let’s go to my hostel and I'll prepare the indomie but it'll be only today and no other time again.”
“Yes, we'll never bother you again; not even in the life to come.”
“Dolapo, which kind of talk is that?  Don’t worry Funmi, we’ll think about your proposal but let’s do what is certain first.” Tope said.
“That is your business; I’ve said my own.”
“Don’t come and spoil this deal for us. You don’t have to speak; all we have to do is to accept now and tomorrow will take care of itself. You don’t read the bible, do you?” Tunde whispered as they followedFunmi behind.
“If God says that Funmi will be the one to take care of our tomorrow, who are we to object the decree of God?” Tope said and they laughed.
Funmi didn’t hear their conversation but she suspected that their discussion was about her; she chose to ignore them.
CHAPTER SIXTEEN
Funmi had been attending lectures in her department but she didn’t really feel the impact of the lectures she had been attending; she usually felt lost during the lectures and even though she listened attentively to what the lecturers were saying, she saw the application to be abstract and tiresome to implement. She was attending lectures frequently since she felt that she was obliged to do so as a student who was determined to excel thus she didn’t desire to miss any lecture. She didn’t perceive the lectures to be interactive but a boredom in which she usually felt that lecturers ought to be quick to deliver their uninteresting garbage and get out. She would be relaxed and comfortable when a lecturer didn’t come for a scheduled lecture and be depressed when attending a lecture and would always wish that the lecturer left the lecture hall before the duration of the lecture elapsed. Being in engineering lectures was like hell for her and she was displeased with all the gestures exhibited by lecturers during lectures; thus, she wasn’t amused at any hilarious comment made by her departmental lecturers to make their classes interactive. 
“What are these people laughing at; what is funny? Somebody is busy making a fool of himself and they're laughing. If he's tired, he should just get out.” She would always grumble when students were laughing in reaction to a joke cracked by a lecturer to keep the class lively.
The more she tried to be focused the more divided her attention was; she couldn’t really lay a finger on the cause of the distraction and lack of interest but she understood that courses in engineering were more or less becoming a burden to her. She was becoming more afraid to be given problems in engineering and she saw fewer prospects in the field. She didn’t want to hear any lecturer mention words like assignments and assessment test.
However, she still tried all she could do to study no matter how unwilling she was and uninteresting any course was to her in engineering. She usually met her course mates to explain some terminologies for her but she wasn’t ready and prepared to attempt the assignments given by different lecturers. She was always eager to copy from those that must have finished their assignments.
She was becoming moody as she kept struggling to keep the spirit to excel in engineering alive; she didn’t stop complaining when she sat to study with Dolapo and crew at night. They collectively encouraged her by expressing their disgust for the course at some points too; they continuously threatened that they would drop out but they kept moving since their lack of interest fluctuated among them. The one that expressed a strong dislike for the course they were studying today would be the one to encourage those that encouraged him to continue tomorrow.
They were always coming to class to study and became more studious as they progressed in the College; they had to go to their various departments in their three hundred level.
“This course is getting tougher every day.” Funmi complained when they were in the lecture hall using different equations to attempt a problem in engineering mathematics.
“You'll never stop complaining yet your GP is higher than most of us.” Tope gushed.
“Funmi, you’ve never got any carryover, yet you’re still complaining; how about those that have been struggling to cross yet it's been difficult.” Dolapo prattled.
“You won’t understand; I don’t think I'll be fulfilled and productive with this course.” 
“Which fulfillment do you need? The primary and fundamental thing is to get the paper qualification; nobody gives a damn about your potentials and competence when you have a good grade. So you shouldn’t be bothered.” Tope said.
“We’ve persevered in this department however tough it's been, we memorized equations and theories even though we could barely understand what we wrote in our previous examinations but we passed our exams and nothing has been easy; we're in our fourth year now and hopefully we will be graduating next year. Forget this worry about a lack of interest and just focus on what you are doing. You're the product of your own happiness and you can still find happiness which can be the expression of what we feel within from things available. Funmi, let’s make electronics the source of our happiness.” Dolapo encouraged Funmi
Funmi was just staring at them as they tried to encourage her while finding a solution to their assignment. She continued to feel that they wouldn’t understand what she was feeling and she wouldn’t blame them for not understanding. She stood up after some minutes of silence and brain storming.
“I'm a little dizzy, I need to go and sleep else I'll have a headache and coming for the evening lectures will be tough for me.”
“Okay, we'll be waiting for Tunde and Chide to come before we leave. Catch you later.” Dolapo said.
“Okay.”
She was really confused and felt frustrated; she would have to figure out what she really wanted to do with her life; what she really had a passion for. She had come to understand that she hadn’t the passion for engineering. However, she would have to become an engineer to please her father and her friends who had been encouraging her. Her growing dislike for Electrical Engineering conditioned her to understand that every endeavour undertaken by people could be challenging and the lack of interest for the field could be a prerequisite as one progressed in the discipline; thus, could be experienced by anybody in any preferred field chosen and people only overcome and excel by being persistent and consistently reassuring themselves that it could get better.
She met Deborah as she was coming back to the hostel; Deborah observed that she was lost in thought; she had been calling her name but Funmi who was walking ahead of her didn't hear her, a student who was coming opposite their direction and coming towards Funmi had to notify Funmi about Deborah’s beckoning before she turned back to see Deborah who hurried to meet her.
“Engineering has really taken over your mind. Babe, the whole world isn't on your head.”
“Sorry, I didn’t even notice that you're calling.”
“It's been a long time and you don’t pick your phone calls anymore; and I know that if not that I met you coincidentally, you wouldn’t have cared to check on me.”
“It's not like that; I've been busy with this engineering nonsense.”
“You're funny; why will you be calling a course admired by people nonsenses? You're looking ill; hope you're okay?”
“I'm fine; I’m just tired of this engineering; I wished I didn’t apply for it in the first place.”
“You're just left with one session; you've been doing great and the stress will soon be over. It will be wonderful being a female engineer.”
“I don’t think I’m going to practice as an engineer after my graduation.”
“After spending all these years and you’re given an opportunity to work in a renowned company, are you telling me that you'll reject the offer?”
“Of course, I’m just pushing because I don’t have the confidence to drop out and nobody will understand and bear with me if I drop out else I became fed up with engineering since I entered this school and I thought that if I should endure and continue the course, I’ll come to love it but I don’t appreciate it until this moment.”
“So what do you want to do besides engineering?”
“I don’t know.”
“I don’t understand; what do you mean by you don’t know? You can’t just abandon your career and sit like that except you want to be a housewife someday.”
“I haven’t figured it out.”
“You have to; what really gives you happiness when you’re doing it?”
Funmi paused to think. “I don’t know.”
“There must be something that makes you happy; is there nothing you do effortlessly that when doing it, you feel some connection and ease?”
“Except that, I appreciate movies and I've always loved to understand the reason behind every scene; I appreciate works of art and I love music dearly.”
“Have you ever considered being part of the creation of art works or you only appreciate and admire the creation by someone else?”
“I've never given a thought to that; I also like reading novels and anytime I see an inspirational message, I feel some kind of connection and happiness.”
“Everybody appreciates and admires art works in varied ways so you can’t use that to qualify your passion; it will become a distraction if you're not careful. You can have a passion for art when you feel pleased and fulfilled in being part of the creation of art. But you can’t be part of the creation because of the field you have chosen; it doesn’t relate to art at all. Any feeling that you have that doesn’t correspond to the discipline you’ve chosen is a distraction and you don’t have to allow it to overwhelm you. Just make up your mind that you'll excel in electronics and refuse to allow the noise around and self-doubt to deny you the prospects your discipline has installed for you.”
“Thank you very much.” 
They had already reached the hostel and were about entering when Deborah’s phone rang; she answered the phone call and was told by her course mate that the lecturer, who was supposed to lecture them on Bio 401 and didn’t come on time, had come and may likely give them assessment test. She had to leave Funmi and she strode back to the lecture hall to attend the lecture.
Funmi entered her room and lay down on her bed reflecting on what Deborah said with regard to creating art work; she had never considered it before. She tried to analysis the different aspects of art and to see where she could fit in. She understood that she wasn’t a good artist; she remembered that it was tough for her to draw the Agama lizard and bird during her biological practical in her SSCE. She considered music but she had never composed any song in her life and felt she didn’t really have the unique and good voice to begin with, and worst still she was shy. She understood that she was a good story teller and could give a perfect description of any event she witnessed.
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
Funmi sat inside her room and didn’t go for lectures. She was lost in thought as she examined her past and tried to recall events she experienced. The desire to put some of her experiences and stories heard from people into writing overwhelmed her. She felt honoured and happy to consider such feeling; she took a piece of paper and a pen and began to write about the mythology of her clan as told her by her father. She was really consumed by the writing and she marveled at the extent in which ideas were falling in place and the chronological flow of events in her head as she was putting them on paper. She began to appreciate herself for the creativity and the style.
She continued writing and other stories kept coming that she couldn’t wait to finish the one she was writing so that she would begin writing the second one and the third one and beyond. She became more inquisitive and was always ready and willing to discuss in order to get people’s opinion to confirm the story she was writing about. She began to look at everything from a different perspective and appreciated nature the more; she felt that everything she came across had an impact on what she was writing and she was ready to interpret many things that she had never paid attention to before. 
She was always seen writing even in the lecture hall; she couldn’t afford to lose any idea that sprang up inside her head. Her course mates were surprised about her new disposition and behaviour but they chose to be quiet and observed what could really be happening.
She was in the lecture hall and was seriously committed to her writing. The students were waiting for a lecturer to come. 
“What's this that you always write now; are you training to be a secretary?” Tope joked.
“No, I'm just writing something.”
“What could that be? It’s been long you dedicated such attention to studies. Hope you don’t want to sell us?” Dolapo gushed in amusement.
“That shouldn’t concern you; and mind you if I wanted to sell you guys, I should have done that since year one.”
“What! What do you mean by that; are you saying we are cheap?” Tope snapped.
“I haven’t said that; if I wanted to sell you, I would have invited you for a meal and arrange with those that wanted to buy you and I know that you can never escape it.”
“I'll escape it; the God I serve would have made me lost appetite the moment He knew that your motives were not clear.” Tope said.
“So you want God to make you lose your appetite without you consciously refusing to accept the invitation, isn’t it?”
“Tope and Tunde can’t resist food even though they know there is poison inside.” Dolapo said.
“You're lucky that Tunde is not here; but why are you guys saying it as if it's wrong to be gotten through food. Is food not meant to be eaten?” Tope said.
“Tope, you can’t even sustain the argument for some time; you don’t have to affirm that with the mention of food you lose your mind.”
“Look at a pot calling a kettle black; you're always the leader in the game; if I lose only my mind, that's great but you also lose your intellect and spirit.” 
Funmi continued to write and they continued in their studies. Funmi was smiling with a great sense of humour as ideas kept coming and were flowing freely. Dolapo was distracted and observed her for some minutes.
“Funmi, you must tell us what you're writing that's amusing you like this; I would say since we began this school, you’ve never been this happy.”
“I can see somebody falling in love and observing what ordinary guys like us wouldn’t notice in Funmi; Dolapo, you know something: if I'm told that you'll someday say this, I wouldn’t have doubted because I've been watching you and I’ve noticed the way you’ve been looking at her.”
Funmi laughed. “Who will accept Dolapo?”
“Can’t you see how muscularly built Dolapo looks? Although Dolapo’s six-pack is invisibly inside his blood vessel.”
“You guys shouldn’t kill me with laughter; I'm writing a novel.” 
“You’re writing a novel; as an engineering student?” Tope was surprised.
“Yes; what's wrong with that.”
“Won’t it distract you; I'd advise that you leave it for now and focus on your studies.” Dolapo said.
Funmi understood that nothing she would say would be good enough to convince them; they had already dismissed it as a distraction and they didn’t want to know if it gave her happiness and fulfillment. She thus chose to be quiet and persisted in her writing. She knew that she ought to be focused on her studies and that would be what anybody in his or her right frame of mind would tell her at that moment. However, she couldn’t let go of the happiness and pleasure she derived from writing; she was also afraid that if she stopped writing, the stories would be forgotten and she would have lost a better part of herself.
She wished she had known this earlier; she would have gone to art class and chosen English literature or one of the art courses. She began to withdraw from her course mates due to their rejection and remained indoors as she continued her writing. She became very observant and defensive and would stop writing anytime her course mates came around. It became very difficult for her to go to class in the evening to study and her course mates complained but she usually insisted that she was studying inside her room.
She was inside writing and she fell asleep. Deborah came to visit her and saw her door open; she entered her room and saw her sleeping. She saw pieces of paper scattered around her and covered with writings. 
“Funmi, what are these writings for?” Deborah was perplexed
Funmi woke up immediately as she heard Deborah’s voice; she didn’t really hear Deborah’s question. “Sorry, I slept off.”
“What is the meaning of all these writings on all these papers littered on the floor?”
“It’s just a novel and I intend to publish it.”
Deborah was amused to hear her. “You're an engineering student and you should be studying materials relating to engineering and not wasting your time on this thing you're doing. Engineering would give you a better future and not this.”
“But you advised me to consider doing what will make me happy and I've come to discover that writing makes me happy.”
“But it shouldn’t be at the expense of your career; engineering is your career and if you continue writing this, you might not graduate with a good grade.”
“But I want to make writing my future career and I know I'll excel in it.”
“You're no longer a child; you don’t have to act blindly, you have to consider the reality before you and what is before you now is to focus and graduate with a good grade and not wishful thinking.”
“Okay, thank you for the advice.”
“Did you cook any food? I haven’t eaten anything since morning.”
“Is that why you came to visit me? If that's the reason, you'll have to return to where you came from.” Funmi joked.
“I came to visit you and that hasn’t changed the fact that I'm your guest and a guest has to be served.”
“There is rice in the pot and you're not a visitor that I'd have to go and dish food for; so if you're really hungry as you’ve claimed, the pot is there.”
Deborah took a plate and went to dish food from the pot. Funmi was disappointed that her friend didn’t support her and wouldn’t see reason with her. She felt discouraged but there was still some burning desire inside her to continue with the writing. Thus she continued despite all odds. 
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
Funmi was at home for a break; Mr. Abiodun noticed that Funmi who was fond of watching movies didn’t really fancy movies anymore. She was always seen sitting at the dining table devotedly writing a long essay. 
Her father woke in the midnight to ease himself and was surprised to see Funmi writing.
“Funmi, what are you writing about? You haven’t given yourself a break since you came back; is it an assignment from the school?”
“No Dad.”
“Then what is it that you’ve been writing?”
“I'm writing a novel.”
“You're writing a novel; What for?” Mr. Abiodun seemed perplexed.
“For publication and for people to read Dad;” Funmi was slow to answer the question; she seemed to have noticed that her father didn’t believe in her potentials to write and it was her duty to prove to them that she was a good writer. However, she understood that nobody would be patient with her and provide the atmosphere to encourage her creativity.
“Is it necessary? You already have a great career that you’re pursuing; why not focus on it? You can’t bring out the best in you when you have a divided attention. You're going to be my young engineer and I can’t wait for you to graduate.”
“But I love writing; it makes me happy.”
“It's great that you love writing, but you should do it in your leisure time and not at the expense of your dreamed career; if you’ve noticed very well, I love singing but I don’t allow my passion for singing to distract me from my duty. It’s not too bad that you're writing now that you're on break but it would be better if you had used the time you are exhausting on this writing to study one aspect of your course that will make you more conversant with engineering terminologies. I want us to start talking engineering in this house.”
Funmi was discouraged when her father compared her writing career with his singing activity; it implied that her father didn’t see anything meaningful in her writing. Mr. Abiodun could barely understand a note and chord in music and nobody would have bought any song he would have sung if he intended to record it; nobody would have accepted it as a gift too, the house would have been piled up with more rubbish called his album.
Funmi wanted to prove a point; she would need to publish a material and she believed that people would come to respect her creativity and admire her potentials when they come to read her book. She had to be more committed and work harder to hasten the publication.
Funmi sat on the dining table all through the night until morning typing what she had written on the computer; she was excited as she was reading through and correcting the mistakes and adding more creative and appealing ideas. Her mother woke up early to cook and prepare for work; she was amazed to still see Funmi sitting on the same spot she saw her when she was going to sleep.
“Did you even sleep at all?” 
“Good morning Mummy; I just want to finish my write up before I sleep.”
“Is it your school project?
“No Mum; it’s a novel.”
“Okay; leave that thing you're doing and go do the dishes since it’s not an academic work.”
Funmi was disappointed that her mother didn’t see meaning and future in what she was doing too; she hibernated the computer system she was using and reluctantly stood up and went to the kitchen. Mrs. Iyabo didn’t care to listen to her explanation and vision before she dismissed it. 
Funmi struggled to remain focused and began to write inside her bedroom instead; she didn’t want anybody to know what she was doing any more until she would probably publish it. 
School resumed and she went back to school; she had almost finished typing and editing her writing; her course mates weren’t interested in her writing ambition before they went for break; they had always told her that it wasn’t necessary and was a distraction as such they didn’t care to ask about her writing activity and to know the extent of her development. They were only discussing the proposed topics they had chosen for their projects and the lecturers or professors they would prefer to supervise them on their project. 
Funmi seemed to be the only one among her course mates who hadn’t considered choosing a proposed topic for her project and didn’t have a supervisor in mind. She seemed lost as they were discussing it and the discussion was more or less becoming boring for her; she wasn’t bothered and intimidated at all. She left the lecture hall to her room and continued typing her material. 
She finished typing it and made inquiries about publication companies and how to go about publishing her material. She was told to submit the manuscript via email which she did; she was hoping that after they analyzed the work and verified to see if it was publishable, the cost of publication would be affordable.
She continued her studies and was satisfied that she had finished writing a novel; she began to write the second novel but didn’t give it her utmost time since she had an examination to write and project to finish. She waited upon the publishing company to give her reply.
After one month, she received an email from the publishing company that her material was publishable; she was so excited and fulfilled to hear that and she demanded without hesitation that a quotation be made for her in order to produce some copies for distribution.
She felt that she could use her savings to fund the publication but unfortunately, she was told that she had to produce a minimum of 500 copies and the quotation given for the number was beyond what she had expected which she invariably didn’t have. She would have to solicit for funding to get the money.
She couldn’t discuss it with her friends and her family; she understood that they wouldn’t give any attention to what she would say. She decided to search the internet to get numbers and addresses of NGOs and organizations for youth development in order to solicit for the fund from them to fund her publication.
She called the numbers she could get from the internet but their responses were not favourable; some insisted that they wouldn’t fund individuals that had no affiliation to any registered organization; others claimed that they fund only schools; some also claimed that they empower only women and children and she tried to make them to understand that she was a lady but it fell on deaf ears and the last straw that broke the camel’s back was those that claimed that they didn’t have that kind of empowerment programme in their organization. She became depressed and all the wonderful imaginations she had of becoming a successful writer seemed to start fading away.
She decided to go out to solicit for the fund but she didn’t know how to begin; the appropriate words to say to convince people. She felt that they wouldn’t understand and would think that she wasn’t telling the truth. She felt that it would be rude and uncultured to meet somebody whom she didn’t know from Adam to solicit for assistance.
She decided to go to the church to seek help from the pastor and to beg for support but unfortunately, the pastor too didn’t have the fund. The pastor empathized with her and assured her that God would provide for her.
She didn’t want to abandon the book; she had already projected a vision in writing and she wouldn’t want to see that dream fade away. She would have to go back to engineering which she felt she had left already. It would be tough for her to build the interest which wasn’t there from the onset for engineering. She knew that anybody she sought for advice from would tell her to focus on engineering where there could be a better prospect and bright future; they would tell her that engineering being professional would someday give her the money to do all the publication she would want to do in future. They would never understand and she wouldn’t have to blame them for not understanding for she was the owner of her thought and there was no one who shared that with her to feel what she felt.
However, unwilling and unprepared she was, she had to focus on the engineering and graduate from the university; she was satisfied that she had identified her passion but was unfulfilled and uncertain that it could materialize and be fruitful. She began to conceive the world as cruel and unfair; she tried to decipher why people would have financial security yet couldn’t be willing to help. She wished there were organizations that supported writers and faulted the government for not providing such opportunities.
She gave it up and tried to focus on her course; she made effort however unwilling and tough it was for her to join Dolapo and crew to study at night. Dolapo and Tope had been worried about her recent disposition towards them and complained that she wasn’t associating with them anymore. They felt that a guy had wooed her and they had been teasing Dolapo for being a coward not to talk to her. Although Dolapo insisted that he had no feelings for her. 
“There's never been any weakling and coward in the history of this universe like Dolapo; he is the definition of cowardice,” Tope gushed sometime back when they were together in the school cafeteria. His reaction and comment was prompted by Dolapo’s complaint that Funmi hadn’t been punctual for lectures and night studies.
“Whenever you want to call somebody a coward, you can save yourself the stress and call ‘Dolapo’ that would suffice for the meaning.” Tunde snapped.
“I have told you guys that I don’t have any feeling for Funmi.” 
“You don’t have any feeling yet you show this kind of affection for her; please Tunde would you kindly grace us with the honour of defining feeling for us?” Tope asked laughing.
“Feeling according to the renowned Michael West Dictionary, a feeling is when you feel as in feel; to be elaborate a feeling is what Dolapo is feeling for Funmi.”
“I don’t blame you guys; we're friends and it's not wrong to show concern for one of us that's not coming out again. And you would all accept that she's been cooking for us.”
“So if I should get you very well, are you telling me that if Funmi is seeing another guy, you won’t be bothered?” Chide asked.
“Why should I?” 
“I see; and do you think that I should believe that?” 
“You guys can believe whatever you care, I don’t give a damn; what you should understand is that I've no affection whatsoever for Funmi.”
“That’s where you’ve lied, and you wouldn’t want to know what I'm thinking.” Tope said.
“Let me give you a glimpse of what he is thinking; Dolapo is dying of guilt at the moment; he wished he utilized all the opportunities he had with Funmi and if he has the chance again he will crawl on his knees and beg her with tears to accept him.” Tunde gushed.
Dolapo wouldn’t dare become angry else they would get at him more; he chose to laugh at it. 
CHAPTER NINETEEN
Funmi started to come out and associated more with her course mates; they were happy to see her come back. Although she didn’t give up her desire to publish her novel; she was always weighing ideas and seeking for possible solutions. The desire to share her plight with her colleagues was always coming but she was afraid that they would discourage her thus she chose to be quiet about it. She didn’t want to lose the spirit to write and she was willing to protect it and avoid any predators.
She participated in all the group assignments given them and was available to copy the assignments from her colleagues and study with them. She was always hopeful as different ideas kept springing up and proffering possible means to get sponsorship for her novel. 
She came back home after a usually boring practical and was so tired that she fell on her bed staring at the ceiling; she missed her house, the movies, and her family. She remembered how caring her father was and how she would love to make her father proud; she felt that if she had the desire to make her father happy, her father, in turn, would be willing to make her happy too. The feeling to tell her father about the publication overwhelmed her but she felt discouraged when she remembered that her father usually expressed a strong desire to someday see her become an engineer and wouldn’t permit any distraction. He would definitely not be happy to see the vision he had for her varnish into thin air. 
“But it’s my life.” She muttered as she was reflecting. 
“And your family is part of it. They want to see you succeed which is why they are protective.” She was having a conflicting thought.
“But they should have understood that I have a passion for this.” She muttered. 
“When they are mere humans; they can’t be you. They only try to understand you and do their best to assist you from their perspective of who they conceive you to be. So none of you could be wrong after all; on their part, they feel they’ve done the best for you by encouraging you to study a professional course and on your part, you feel attached to writing which is what you feel would be best for yourself. Everybody, in this case, is out for what is best for you. So who would you blame for doing the best which you feel is misdirected?”
“But they should trust and believe in me; they should believe in my judgment.” She muttered. 
“What would make them believe in your judgment? There is nothing to show; no work to prove that you are good in writing. They see it to be youthful exuberance which should be guided; you have the engineering already but writing is still a dream which couldn’t materialize too. No parent would want to risk a child whom they love so much to be misguided. Thus it is their responsibility to be protective and you'll understand when you become a parent.”
“But I can’t prove any point when I'm not given the chance.” She muttered. 
“Maybe you be patient and acquire the one your parents are providing for you at the moment; they want you to have a stepping stone. Who will choose for you when you have the money after acquiring a well-paid job with the engineering you studied? Nobody and not even your mother; then you can show the world the stuff you are made of, and you don’t have to solicit for fund again. But you ought to be patient, diligent and steadfast.”
“I may lose the vision and desire.” She muttered. 
“Such desire can never be lost; it's what makes you who you are; that is what the world would recognize you to be. Now that you’ve discovered it, it'll always survive the test of time. How about you clear all doubt and tell your father about it; let him reject it first and you mustn’t tell by words of mouth, you can put it in writing and see his response.”
“Will he accept?” She muttered. 
“What does it change? Already you feel he wouldn’t accept and when you try and he doesn’t accept, you're still good. But let him not accept first, and then you'll know that you’ve exhausted all options; so you should write to him.” 
Funmi was happy that in her reflection, she could come up with such idea that she didn’t consider before now. She immediately saw the value of having a quiet moment to reflect. Funmi took up her phone; pressed the power button to enable the screen light to display, she entered her password and scrolled through the applications on the phone, she clicked on the icon to enable messaging and it opened. She took a deep breath; she paused for some minutes to choose an appropriate heading to define the message. She wrote on it.
“Dear loving Daddy, if there is one thing I would demand from you again, I will beg that you support me to publish my novel; that is where my passion and dream lie. I don’t intend to disappoint you; you’ve always accepted me for being me and to continue what you’ve always done is to sponsor me. I love you Dad.” 
 Mr. Abiodun was in the office when the message entered his phone; he was prompted by his phone immediately the message entered. He checked his phone and opened the message inbox to read the message. He smiled as he read the message and he proceeded to dial Funmi’s phone number. 
Funmi lay down and was reflecting on the content of the message; she tried to imagine her father’s response. She was also afraid that her father might not read the message; she kept praying silently and wishing for a positive response from her father. She wasn’t expecting any phone call especially from her father; she wasn’t expecting any quick response. 
She became distressed and the rate of her heart beat increased as her phone began to ring; she looked at the phone and saw that it was her father that was calling. She answered the phone.
“Hello, Daddy.”
“How are you Funmilayo?”
“I’m fine Daddy.
“Hope school is fine and your project work has been okay?”
“Yes Dad.”
“I read your text message; Funmilayo, are you really serious about this novel writing?”
“Yes Dad.”
“And you said a publishing company has considered publishing it?”
“Yes Dad.”
“I'm afraid it would distract your studies; I don’t want you to be distracted; you know engineering is professional and demands total attention.”
“It won’t Dad.”
“I’m afraid;” he paused for some seconds as if he was tied and had to necessarily choose between contending options. He wouldn’t want to completely discourage his daughter’s creativity and wouldn’t want her to feel insufficient or to have self-doubt. “Okay let’s enter an agreement; since we all want the same thing which is happiness: you know that I will be the happiest man in the whole world if you graduate and obtain an engineering degree and I see that you'll be very happy if you publish your novel.” He paused for a while. “If you publish your novel, you'll have to contend with publicity at the expense of your studies and I won’t want you to be distracted. So the day you will be graduating, I will give you the money for the publication no matter the cost.”
“Thank you Dad.”
“Please make me proud by graduating with a good grade; I’ve told all my friends that my daughter is coming out with a first class honour.”
“Okay Dad.” Even though she knew that it wouldn’t be possible again.
“And I like the part where you said ‘you love me’. You mean the world to me my dear.”
“Thank you Dad.”
“Will you be coming home for weekend?”
“No, our exams will begin in two weeks’ time and I have to study for it.”
“Okay, all the best and make sure you study very hard. Hope you don’t need anything?”
“No, Dad.”
“I will send you recharge card later in the evening. Take care of yourself.”
“Okay, Dad. Bye bye.”
“Okay Bye.”
Funmi was very glad and satisfied with the terms and conditions since she would be graduating in two months’ time. She would have to be serious with her project to meet her father’s term.
She successfully graduated although not with a very good result but her book was published and her family and friends were proud of her creativity after they read her work. She continued writing and she excelled in writing as she won some notable awards as a writer.
To reach the author or send in your review:
Email: Igoche.john@yahoo.com
Phone No: +2348036988784

