

RACHEL’S STORY


Jack Fisher
Contents
Prologue
One
Two
Three
Four

Prologue
Rachel grips the wheel and turns. The van veers off the track and down a gap between trees. Her body bounces off the seat. She taps the brake to slow her momentum, guiding the van as smoothly as possible over the uneven ground, her head leant over the wheel, her eyes fixed on the dirt and tree trunks illuminated by the headlights. She slows to a halt in the clearing, pushes the gearstick into reverse. It still sticks, but she is long since used to it. She spins the van around, shifts it into first gear, kills the ignition and the lights, then lifts the mobile from the passenger seat and types: Here.
She stares out through the windscreen. The canopy of leaves above is at its thickest, and the sky had clouded over before she left the house. Pitch black, she would have called it before. But over the weeks she’s been doing this, she’s found her eyes – or perhaps her mind – adjusting, learning to make use of even the faintest trace of light. She scans from left to right, checks the mirrors at either side of the van. Lowers the windows, listens out. The brushing of the wind against the leaves, the occasional lonely scratching of an animal in the undergrowth. And silence. 
She zips up her fleece against the night air, pulls her hood forward, feeling it slip smoothly over her head. It felt strange in the hairdressers, watching the dark chunks of hair slide down the black gown and onto the tiles. A moment of doubt as she looked at herself in the mirror, an urge to jerk away from the scissors. But by the following day she’d adjusted, taken pleasure in the sleekness as she moved her hands through it. Bill accepted it too, after that first evening when he’d kept glancing at her from the settee and frowning to himself. But then Bill has had to accept a lot of things. William, though – he has a way of looking at her, glancing up above her forehead, that makes her want to turn away from him. 
Her ear twitches. From the right, a faint crackling. She turns her head, stares into the darkness, her finger and thumb on the ignition key. A dot of light flickers amongst the trees. She places one foot on the clutch, the other on the accelerator. The light comes brighter, then flashes. Two short, two long, one short. She takes her feet off the pedals, folds her hands back into her lap. The footsteps grow louder, and the light is extinguished. A shape looms into the window, and she picks out Guy’s features in the darkness. 
‘All good?’ she whispers.
‘Yeah.’ The tiredness creeps through his voice.
‘You’re first.’
‘Huh.’
‘I’ve no prize for you, though. Sorry.’
He laughs softly. ‘A sit down will do.’
She reaches down and releases the back door lock. His face disappears from the window, then she feels the suspension lower as he climbs into the back of the van. She hears the doors close softly, and she is left again with the faint sounds of the forest. After a couple of minutes she hears noises again, then torchlight, this time from the left. One by one they appear, flashing the signal, nodding to her through the windows, climbing in through the back doors. She counts them back: two, three, four, five, and then finally six. As always, and despite not being home yet, she allows herself a small relief. Ever since she heard them talking about the man across the valley who stepped on his own mine, she’s been terrified of not returning with her full complement. 
A rap comes against the wooden panel separating her from the back of the van. The signal. She turns the key and presses on the accelerator. They jerk back through the forest, over the bumps and stones and roots, and onto the track. Her mind drifts to William. She hopes Bill has got supper sorted like she asked. It’s not much of a birthday, she knows. But then it’s not much of a life at the moment, and it won’t be much of one in future if things keep going the way they are. 
She adjusts the wheel, straightens the van on the track. Not far to the scout hut. Then home, and she can watch him unwrap his present. Another model plane – something he can make with his hands, Bill said, persuading her. She wanted to get him more books, but she was too tired to argue. She rounds the bend and hits the brake pedal. A hundred yards ahead. A truck in the middle of the track. An army truck. Stationary, with its back to them. She tenses, then reaches her arm behind her and raps twice on the panel. A warning. The truck remains still, no sign of movement. She tries to think. Reverse? No. Try to go around them? No, too dangerous. Wait. She reaches across to the passenger seat, grabs the mobile and squeezes it into the gap underneath the seat cushion. As she looks up, the side door of the truck opens. A soldier jumps out, followed by another. Guns out, pointed. She swallows, pulls her hood back to uncover her head. The soldiers move towards her. She looks at their faces, young, callow, their cheekbones half-silhouetted in the headlights. She doesn’t recognise them. The front soldier aims his flashlight into her face, then motions with his hand. She lowers the window.
‘Where are you heading?’
‘St Mathews. I’m picking my son up from the youth club.’
‘Name?’
‘Rachel Benson.’
‘Where do you live?’
‘Mardale Close. In the village.’ 
‘This your van?’
‘It’s my husband’s. He’s a builder.’
‘What’s in the back?’
‘Just tools.’
The soldier glances behind him at the truck, then back at Rachel. ‘Hand me the keys.’
She pulls the key from the ignition, hands it to him through the open window. The soldier turns around. 
‘Stay here and watch her.’
The second soldier nods, while the first moves around to the back of the van. She watches him in the side mirror, holding her breath, trying not to let her expression falter, to betray the knowledge that each of the men in the back of the van is armed, that as soon as the soldier pulls the doors open he could have six guns trained on him, and that even though in theory they should be on the same side, she has no confidence that right now, with all that has gone on, not one of them will fire. 
As the soldier’s reflection disappears from the mirror, a shout comes from in front. She looks up to see a third soldier emerging from behind the truck. 
‘Halt,’ he shouts again.
He marches towards them. His face appears older, his body stockier. He looks the van up and down, then calls to the two soldiers.
‘Get back in the truck.’
‘Yes sir,’ they chorus.
The first soldier walks back round to the window, hands her the keys without looking at her, then the two of them walk back, the green ribbing of their jumpers illuminated in the headlights. The older soldier moves to the window, lowers his head.
‘Evening.’
She nods. She feels like she is still holding her breath. He glances behind her.
‘Transportation,’ he says quietly.
She looks at him, unsure whether it was meant as a question or a statement.  
‘Be careful in future. There are rogue units about. You might find yourself on the wrong side.’
She nods. He looks at her a moment more, then withdraws from the window and raps his hand on the bonnet. ‘Get yourself home,’ he says loudly. ‘It’s not safe at this hour, a woman driving alone.’
‘I will. Thank you.’
The soldier walks back to the truck. She watches, waiting, until they pull away then disappear round the bend. She breathes out, knocks once on the wooden panel behind her, and turns the key.

















Three months earlier
One
Rachel walks down the side of the library, pushes open the gate and steps into the park. The grass is freshly cut, and shimmers in the sunshine. A group of teenage boys, a couple of years older than William perhaps, lie bare-chested by the bandstand, their conversation erupting into shouts and laughter. She follows a pair of mothers pushing strollers along the path until she finds a free bench. A black-and-white terrier noses around in the bushes behind it, its owner calling impatiently. She sits, lifts her bag onto her lap and pulls out her sandwiches. The terrier darts away, careering across the grass towards a tennis ball hurled into the air. Rachel bites into the sandwich. The dog pounces on the ball, then trots back towards its owner. Rachel watches it, her eyes half-squinting into the sunlight, so that she doesn’t notice Robert walking up the path towards her.
‘Hello there.’
She looks up, half-replies while swallowing her food. He motions to the space beside her. ‘May I?’
‘Of course.’ 
The bench creaks as he lowers himself onto it. They gaze out onto the grass.
‘Lovely day,’ he says.
She nods. ‘Forecast had it right.’
‘Yes.’ He pauses, then lowers his voice. ‘About the one thing we can rely on, these days.’
She glances about. The only people within earshot are the two mothers on the bench further down and the boys on the grass, and they all seem occupied with each other. She keeps her voice quiet. ‘You heard they’re planning another walk-out at the school?’
He shakes his head. ‘They talk about the children as though they care. When all they care about is themselves.’
She takes another bite of her sandwich.
‘How’s William?’ he asks.
A tiny pang shoots through her. ‘He’s okay. Confused, mostly. I try to explain it to him, but...’ She looks to the sky. A flight of swallows floats across, disappearing behind her. ‘How are your girls?’
‘Same. I try to keep them off the internet, away from all the nonsense.’
She looks back to the grass. The man with the terrier sits on the edge of the bandstand, gazing down onto his phone while the dog explores the rhododendrons. 
‘Listen Rachel, I know about Bill. I know that he wanted to join.’
She stiffens, glances about again.
‘And I’m sorry we had to say no.’
She looks at the willow tree, its branches hanging still.
‘It was only because of, you know...’
‘He knows he has a problem,’ she says, flatly.
‘It was nothing to do with anything else. We know he would have been loyal. I hope he understands that.’
‘He does.’
She glances to the right. A woman walks up the path in their direction, then stops by the two mothers sitting on the bench.
‘We know you would be loyal, too.’
Her forehead wrinkles. 
‘Rachel,’ he says, almost whispering now, ‘what I’m getting at is – if you wanted to join – I don’t think we’d have a problem.’
She turns to him. ‘Me?’
‘Yes. You.’
‘But—’ she stops, looks at him. He holds her gaze, the crow’s feet around his eyes visible in the sunshine.
‘You’d be an asset, Rachel. I don’t want to pressure you. I just wanted to let you know we’ve been thinking of you.’
‘But why? What could I do?’
‘There’s lots you could do. But first you need to decide whether you want to be in. We don’t know yet how dangerous it could be.’
She looks back onto the grass. Three of the teenage boys push themselves to their feet, one with a frisbee in his hand.
‘I don’t know. I hadn’t thought...’
‘I understand. Take your time. Whenever you decide, let me know.’
‘How?’
‘You’ll work it out. Just yes or no.’
She nods. He remains for a few seconds, then pushes himself up, says goodbye and walks back down the path.

Rachel leaves the park, walks back along the high street, pushes open the door to the café. Dons her apron, resumes her position behind the counter. Pours coffee, slices cake, wipes tables. All the while, the conversation loops through her mind. We’ve been thinking of you. We know you would be loyal. We. Robert must be more involved than she thought. She knew which side he was on, obviously. Everyone seems to know which side people are on. Nobody says it, at least not loudly, not indiscriminately, but people just know. The village isn’t large, and it’s easy to cast labels. That’s what’s so hard for the children, she thinks. The labelling. That’s what got William upset, when he came home that day and said kids had been shouting things at him as he walked back from school. Conservative. Elitist. Fascist. Words they didn’t even understand. That their parents probably don’t understand. It isn’t fair. Not on anybody, really, but least of all the children.
‘Excuse me? Rachel? Can I have a glass of water please?’
She looks up, smiles, nods, goes to run the tap. David. Works for the council. A little harder to call than the others, keeps himself to himself, but probably supports the uprising, if she had to guess. She carries the glass over, smiles again, returns to the counter. She’d suspected, when Bill had put his name forward, that they would turn him down. Relief, was what she felt when he told her. He was half-cut of course, clattering about the kitchen, his eyes anywhere but on hers. Had gone straight to the pub after they’d told him. Started shooting his mouth off, she heard later. As if to prove their point. She’d thought that was that. They’d keep their heads down, make their voice known when necessary, when safe. But now this. Her first reaction, walking back from the park, was no. There was William, after all. But then – wasn’t it for William that Bill said he wanted to join? 
‘Earl Grey please. With a dash of milk, if you don’t mind.’
She smiles, holds out her hand, deposits the coins in the till. She should do the right thing. By William. By everybody. But what if this – opposing what’s happening – isn’t the right thing? They say, these rebels, these so-called ‘revolutionaries’, that people like her want everything to stay the same. Well, that’s not true. There are a few things she would change if she had the chance. She knows there aren’t enough decent jobs for young people. Or houses. She worries about William, about what sort of future he might have. She knows it’s not exactly fair that some people have so much money, and others don’t even have a roof over their head. She can agree with them on that. But that doesn’t mean everything has to be torn up, surely. It’s the uncertainty, the disturbance, the fear, that she can’t stand. The lengths they seem willing to go to.
She hangs up her apron, turns the sign, locks the door, steps back onto the high street. The spring air has cooled, but the dipping sun is still warm on her face. She walks past the Red Lion, the florists, the antiques store, saying hello to Pawel as he leaves the chemists, waving to Linda at the bus stop across the road, then she turns off, navigating through the small estate before reaching the cul-de-sac. At the end, before the village gives way to fields, is their house, 70s-built, modest but detached, and in front of it, Bill’s van parked in the driveway. Her stomach tenses. Please let him not have been home for long. He’s been spinning out his current job, working shorter hours, knowing that other projects are sparse on the horizon. Some time to myself at least, he said. But she knows what that means.
She turns the key and pushes open the door. The house is quiet. She hangs up her coat, eases off her shoes, walks through the hallway and into the kitchen. The surfaces are clean, tidy. The back door is open. Through the window she can see her husband in the garden, bent forward, his foot on the spade, his T-shirt riding up to expose the hairs on his lower back. She watches him for a second, then steps through the doorway and onto the patio.
‘Hi.’
He stops, turns, wipes his brow.
‘Hi, love.’
His eyes are clear, and there is a flicker of a smile. She makes a decision. She’ll tell him. She didn’t think she would, but she’ll tell him. And she’ll do it tonight.
‘William home?’
‘Upstairs.’ He glances above her head. She cranes her neck instinctively towards the window above the kitchen, then turns back.
‘Cup of tea?’
He smiles. ‘Read my mind.’
She goes back inside, puts the kettle on then walks into the hall, up the stairs and onto the landing. She listens by the door, then knocks.
‘Yeah?’ comes the faint voice.
‘It’s me. Can I come in?’
‘Okay.’
She turns the handle and opens the door. William is sitting at the desk, his laptop open. He twists his neck, looks at her. His hair, dark like hers, is wavy in every direction, his skin pale, his freckles starting to reappear. 
‘How was school?’
He wrinkles his nose, shrugs. She motions to the laptop.
‘What are you up to?’
‘Just looking at stuff.’
‘Do you not want to come outside? It’s a lovely evening.’
His face stiffens, and his eyes flash to the window. She winces. ‘He’s—’ she starts, her voice low. He’s not drinking, she wants to say. It’s one of the good times. Don’t waste them.
She stops herself, smiles. ‘It’d be nice. We could play a board game if you like.’
He glances back to his laptop. ‘Okay. Maybe in a bit.’
She returns to the kitchen, makes the tea, carries the mugs out to the patio table. Bill leans the spade against the fence and treads across the lawn to join her. He tells her about his day. Clocked off at four, he says. The job’s going well. In fact, they might have to do some longer days over the next week, maybe even a few hours at the weekend, as he had a call this afternoon from a mate of a mate over in Worplestone, urgent job, refitting a shop that got damaged in the demonstrations last week. 
Every cloud I suppose, he says, raising a bushy eyebrow as he sips his tea. Rachel frowns at him, but only for a moment – for both of them, the prospect of him having work for a while is an unexpected relief. There’s not been much call lately for extensions, conservatories or loft conversions. A week ago he had to lay off Callum, the apprentice. Took it well, Bill said to her the next day. Took it better than you, she thought to herself, seeing as Bill had disappeared to the pub all evening after telling him.
Bill finishes his tea, walks back to the vegetable patch, lifts the spade. She sits for a while, watching a sparrow peck at the seedball dangling from the fence post. William emerges, glass of orange juice in one hand, Scrabble in the other. They set up on the patio table. She wins, but only just. He’s getting good with words these days. Spending a lot of time indoors, his head over a book. Another silver lining perhaps. He wants to play again but she has to go inside and make dinner, so instead he plays against himself, left hand versus right, the way Bill’s mum used to. She watches him through the window while chopping carrots. He should have more friends, she knows. He deserves more friends. He did have, before all the unrest – they’d be off on their bikes into the forest, or round each other’s houses. But not now. Now he is home straight after school, sprawled on the settee or, if Bill is there, is in one of those moods, she finds him up in his room, the door closed.
She holds a pan of potatoes in the sink, runs the tap. At least he still has school – when they’re not on strike, that is. She saw something on the internet, somewhere in Wales, where they’d had to close the school. Sent the kids home indefinitely. Closing down schools! She rubs the skin of the potatoes with her fingers, tries not to think about it. As long as the library stays open. As long as there are books for him to read. For everything else, well, she would close the café and teach him herself if she had to.
When the food is almost ready, she raps on the windowpane. William comes inside, puts the Scrabble away, sits at the table. Bill washes his hands in the sink, sits beside him by the wall. She dishes up. They eat quietly. When their plates are empty, William clears the table, stacks the dishwasher then disappears upstairs. Rachel goes to the window. Dusk has arrived, and clouds of midges float above the lawn. She rolls down the blinds, turns to her husband.
‘I saw Robert today.’
Bill looks at her, then stands up, walks to the fridge and pulls out a can of beer.
‘He said – you know – that it was a shame they couldn’t take you. But that they appreciated you volunteering.’
Bill sits back at the table, cracks open the can. A globule of white foam oozes onto the metal rim. 
‘He also said—’ she pauses, trying to take her time ‘—that if I wanted to join, there might be a place for me.’
He looks up at her. ‘You?’
‘Yes. That’s what he said.’
He gulps back some beer, swallows, shakes his head. ‘It’s not right.’
‘Why?’
‘They should have taken me.’
‘Bill, you know why they didn’t.’
He doesn’t reply.
‘So what do you think?’
He takes another swig of the can, wipes his beard. ‘I told you. It’s not right.’
‘Yes, but—’
‘What would you be doing? It’s too dangerous. There was something on the radio earlier, up in Middlesbrough. Shootings. It’s getting out of hand.’
‘I know.’
He glances at the ceiling. ‘What about William?’
‘It’s for William I’d be doing it. That’s what you said, right? When you told me you wanted to volunteer.’
‘Yes, but this is different.’
‘Why?’
‘Because – because you’re his mother.’
She stands with her back to the sink, her hands gripping the edge of the worktop, her eyes staring at her husband as he tips back the can. Through the ceiling, she hears the sound of the upstairs toilet flushing. Eventually Bill turns back to her.
‘What did you say? To Robert?’
‘That I’d think about it.’
‘And? Have you?’
‘Yes. But I still don’t know what to do.’
He stares down at his can. ‘It’s your decision, Rachel. But you know how I feel.’
She nods. He takes another gulp of beer, then pushes back his chair and stands up. ‘I’m going to check I locked the shed.’
He goes to the back door, pulls it open then steps outside, taking his can with him.

Over the next couple of days the question is never far from her mind. She finds herself reading and hearing news about the unrest even more than before. Empty apartment blocks in Manchester forced open. Pitched battles with police on estates in Cardiff. Whole streets of residents’ cars set on fire in Kensington. It’s hard to know what’s real and what’s exaggerated, or twisted to suit who’s telling the story. TV, internet, radio, newspapers – they all shout louder and louder, each proclaiming the truth. One thing seems certain: the number of people unhappy with the status quo, prepared to act against the law and challenge it, is increasing. People are getting hurt, even killed. Sometimes, flicking through the news feed on her phone, or catching something on the kitchen radio, she gets angry, and other times frightened. So far, in the village, nothing major has happened. A couple of people have taken advantage of the situation to settle old scores, fighting after the pubs have kicked out. There was a spate of graffiti, doors being targeted, threats made in crude paintstrokes but not followed up. People, for the most part, have been able to get on with their lives. But there is an undercurrent of nervousness, a fear and suspicion lurking behind everyday interactions she finds impossible to ignore.
She sees Robert twice. Once in the supermarket, queueing at the checkout, and once in the library, she with William, he with Susan and the girls. Both times she smiles, says hello, tries to act normal. Then, on the fifth day since their meeting in the park, she overhears people in the café whispering, showing each other their phones. She steps behind the counter, pulls her mobile from her bag, clicks on the news. An insurrection in Ipswich, not fifteen miles away. The council taken over. Banks, offices ransacked. Banners hung from the town hall, proclaiming Justice for All. The facts aren’t easy to discern, but there are suggestions, comments, eye-witness accounts saying that the council leader and some councillors have disappeared, or even, some people are saying, been killed. The rebels have put out a statement: This is just the beginning, they say. Change is coming. 
Rachel carries on. Pouring coffee, slicing cake, wiping tables. Thoughts racing around her mind. Robert. Bill. William. The village, her parents, the country she grew up in - peaceful, law-abiding, predictable. Boring, she used to complain when she was growing up. How she took it for granted. How everyone took it for granted. Car-bombings, uprisings, street battles. Things she used to read about happening in other countries, not here. If only William could complain that his childhood was boring. If only he could grow up in a world where nothing ever happened.
She arrives home. Bill is unloading the van, stashing his tools back in the garage. She stands in the driveway, waiting for him to turn around.
‘Did you hear? About Ipswich?’
He grimaces, nods. 
‘Bill, we have to—’
He frowns, glances about the cul-de-sac. She checks herself, follows him into the garage.
‘We have to do something.’
‘Like what?’
‘You know what.’
He shakes his head. ‘No, Rachel. It’s too dangerous. If some of the things are true, what they did...’
‘No, Bill. I need to – I’m going to—’
He grabs her arm. ‘No, Rachel. Please. For my sake. For William’s.’
She holds her breath, looks away to where William’s bike hangs against the wall, resting on the nails Bill hammered in on his last birthday.
‘Where is he?’
‘Upstairs.’
‘Does he know? About the news?’
‘I don’t know. You know—’ he looks away ‘—you know he doesn’t talk to me about any of this stuff.’
She takes a breath. ‘I’ll go up and see him.’

Bill is at the pub, William in his room. She checks her watch every couple of minutes, until eventually she can stand it no more. She goes upstairs, tells William she is popping out to Linda’s for a while, then she walks back down, opens the door and steps outside. The streetlights are on, the air cool and still. She wears jeans and trainers, a fleece top and her anorak, unzipped and probably unnecessary, but then she’s no idea really what to expect. She slips down the ginnel that juts off the end of the cul-de-sac, passing between garden fences and emerging onto the track that separates the farm from the forest. To her left, the nascent greens of the seedlings covering the fields glow eerily in the waning light. To her right, the oak trees are silhouetted against the blue-black sky, a smattering of leaves bursting from the highest branches. She keeps her eyes ahead, her fingers playing around the torch in her anorak pocket as she walks. Twelve, fifteen minutes and she rounds a bend in the track to see the scout hut. A single-storey breezeblock building, white light shining from the small rectangular windows. She used to bring William here, three or four years ago, before she felt he was old enough to walk by himself. How long before it’s unsafe for him again? 
She reaches the hut, walks around to the front. Four or five cars sit in the darkness of the dirt car park. She glances at her watch again. Ten minutes to go. She pauses for a moment, considering waiting, then she walks to the door, nods to herself and pulls it open. Inside, around twenty plastic chairs have been placed in loose rows, around half occupied. Faces look across at her, eyes flickering in recognition. At the front of the room is a long table, behind which sit three men: on the left, a village councillor; on the right, a young man she doesn’t recognise; and in the centre, looking down at his phone, Robert. The room is silent, save for the hum of the fluorescent striplights fixed to the ceiling. She walks self-consciously towards the chairs and takes a seat next to Guy from the school parents’ association. He looks at her, raises an eyebrow. She opens her mouth to say hi, then nods instead. 
He nods stiffly in return, then looks back to the front. The door opens and another man enters. She looks at Robert, wonders if he noticed her arrive, but he is ensconced in whispered conversation with the young man next to him. Instead she casts her gaze to the walls, half-looking to see if she can spot William’s face or name on the hotchpotch of posters, certificates and photographs. The door opens more frequently, some people she recognises and some she doesn’t, mostly men but a handful of women too. The last few have to lift their own chairs from the stack at the back of the room. Whispered conversations break out. The air feels warmer, closer. She takes off her anorak, half-unzips the fleece underneath. Finally the councillor, a thick-set, ruddy-faced man with hair greying at the temples, raps on the table. The hush dies down to silence.
‘Alright, everybody,’ he says. ‘I’ll keep this brief. You all know why we’re here. There are people, all over the country now it seems, who are hell-bent on tearing down whatever order there is in this country and replacing it with chaos and anarchy. Revolutionary Unity, they call themselves. Well, if this is their idea of unity...’ he stops, shakes his head. ‘God knows how we got to this point, but here we are. So far around here we haven’t seen the worst of it. But we all saw what happened in Ipswich. We should be under no illusion that at some point these people, these terrorists, will try to attack us here. Some people think we should let the police and the army defend us. But again, we all know what happened in Ipswich. They stood by and watched. Some even joined in. So we believe that it’s up to us, ordinary law-abiding citizens like you and I, to defend what we have against these terrorists, when they come. Because they will come.’
Rachel glances about the room. Everybody remains still, their gaze fixed forward. The man pauses, turns to Robert. ‘Right, I’m going to hand over now.’
Robert clears his throat, begins to speak. He explains some of the practicalities. This is their first proper meeting, he says. Ideas are welcome, but they have a list of tasks they need volunteers for. He wants to be clear – they’ll listen to suggestions, but this is not a democracy. There’s no time for that, to develop things from the ground up. That’s why the man to his left is here. He’s from outside the county, says Robert, where they’ve had a group like this for three months now, resisting the terrorists. He can’t say where, for obvious reasons – and that’s something he wants to stress: they’ll need absolute secrecy. That’s why we had to vet all of you, he says, and why we can’t tolerate anything – anything – that’s said in here repeated out there. 
He speaks clearly and with authority. Rachel thinks of when she first met him, helping her off the bus with her stroller. William wouldn’t stop crying and she was embarrassed, but he acted as if everything was normal. His wife – Susan – was pregnant herself, he said, with twins on the way. They’d just moved into one of the old silk-weaving cottages at the other end of the village. He worked from home, he said, something to do with computers – she was never sure what exactly, but he seemed to have money from somewhere, judging by his Range Rover and the way they’d done up the cottage. Well-spoken too, but relatively unassuming, or so she’d thought. She could never have imagined him sitting up there, talking about resisting, organising, about how they all had to agree that if necessary, to defend themselves, their families and the village, they would use force as a last resort, and if anyone was uncomfortable with that, they should leave now.
Rachel glances around, but nobody moves from their chair. She herself doesn’t consider leaving – in an abstract way, what he says seems perfectly reasonable. Who wouldn’t use force to defend themselves and their families, if they had to? What’s the alternative – just lying back and letting people take what they want?
The meeting moves onto organisation. Robert asks for volunteers for the various task forces they’re setting up. It reminds Rachel of the group they set up a few years ago to protect the green belt, when developers were threatening to build the new estate. She thrusts her hand up three times: once, when people are needed for making food; again, for the communications group; and finally, at the last moment, for transportation – after all, she thinks, her car sits in the garage most of the time, and she might as well put it to some use.
Details, for everything that is spoken about, are sketchy. That will come later, Robert promises. For now, just two more things. Firstly, everybody is handed a black, basic-looking Nokia phone. They’re unlikely to hold any more meetings like this, he says. It’s just too dangerous for them to gather in one place. Instead, all communication will take place using these phones, and they should never, ever use them for anything unconnected to the group. And finally, names – it is forbidden, he says, to use anybody’s real name when communicating. Underneath the phones, they will each find their group alias. Read it, memorise it, destroy it – and then use it, and only it. 
Rachel turns the phone over, peels away the strip of tape and turns over the small piece of card underneath. Rabbit, it says. For some reason, it makes her smile.

At first, nothing changes. She serves customers in the café, comes home, makes dinner for Bill and William, then spends the evenings watching TV or baking a cake for the next day. She keeps the mobile with her at all times, hidden in her bag or her inside coat pocket, checks it regularly. Then, after three days, she receives her first message: instructions from the communications team. An address to report to. She recognises the young woman who answers the door, Katie, she thinks her name is, though she puts that out of her mind – for now, for however long this goes on for, she is Pigeon. There are two others there, a young woman she half-recognises and an older man. Pigeon gives them access to social media accounts, a list of usernames and fake IP addresses, instructions on how to use them and guidance on what to post. Phrases to use. Anecdotes to report, descriptions of events, quotes from eye-witnesses. Incidents that actually happened, Pigeon says, but that not enough people heard about – so they need repeating, spreading, publicising. Here, she says, showing them her laptop, remember when that school was taken over in Portsmouth? At first there were just rumours, nobody seemed to know what was happening. It wasn’t getting that much attention nationally. So people like us focussed the issues, repeated a couple of key stories: the history curriculum rewritten as leftist propaganda; children – innocent children, remember, and of normal families – forced to renounce their parents. We made sure anything that contradicted those messages got drowned out. And in the end, the extremists were driven away.
Rachel carries out her duties assiduously. Whenever she receives a new message, a link to a story or a post, she runs through the possible angles while she stands behind the counter in the café, or while she eats dinner with Bill and William, and then later, secreted away in the spare room, she goes online and posts. She takes her time about it, follows the instructions, copies and pastes the eye-witness quotes she’s given, maximises words like radical, extremist, terrorist, threat, tries to do a proper job. Give everything your best, her dad used to say, then you can look yourself in the eye. Those words stuck with her – at school, behind the counter in her parents’ grocery shop, even as a mother with William, and then later, when she decided to take over the café. She thought it would give her a sense of purpose. And it did, of sorts, but somehow it always felt not big enough – like everything in her life, she would think to herself when she was low, when she was lying awake at three in the morning. Even William, she felt, before the guilt forced her to move her thoughts on.
But this is different. Now there is a cause, a mission, something that is bigger than herself or her family. She is a member of a group, with a structure. Even in the catering team, making meals in the rudimentary scout hut kitchen for the forest patrols when they come back in from shifts, she feels a usefulness that she’s never felt serving people in the café or cooking in her own kitchen, alone, for her husband and son. Then there is the wider impact – the first time one of her posts goes viral, rumours of farmhouses being burned down in Norfolk, the attackers not caring if the owners were home or not, she stays up till three in the morning, staring at the glow of her laptop in the spare room, Bill asleep next door.
Sometimes she sees the others in the café, on the high street, in the library, or at parents association meetings at the school. They act normal to each other – nod, smile, ask about the children, comment on the weather. The secrecy gives her a thrill – she tries to deny it to herself at first, then she accepts it, tries to laugh it off as something childish. It’s different with Bill. Every time she lies to him about having to leave the house, every time she sneaks to the spare room to open her laptop, every time she has to ask him to repeat himself because she hasn’t been listening, she feels as if she’s breaking something, a bond she always took for granted. 
For a month she manages to keep it from him. Then a message – her first – from the transportation team. Vehicle and driver needed 9pm tonight. Respond within one hour. She gives herself a couple of minutes, while she empties the espresso machine in the café, then she replies. Rabbit can provide. The rest of the afternoon she imagines herself showing up in her red Fiesta. The others, whoever they would be, looking in the back seat, into the tiny boot, and shaking their heads. She pictures Bill’s van on the driveway. The van he never uses at night. The van whose purpose, after all, is transporting things. She makes it through to five then closes up and walks home, her stomach clenched, her legs almost tripping over themselves. She will ask him. Then he will know. However he reacts, he will at least know.
The driveway is empty. She lets herself in then paces about the house and garden, tidying up the living room, sweeping the patio, emptying the dishwasher, snapping at William for the state of his room. She gets out her phone, thinks about texting, puts it down. At ten minutes to six, the van rolls onto the drive. He comes through the door, complains of being tired. He looks it too, but she doesn’t want to wait. 
‘Bill,’ she says, after placing his cup of tea on the kitchen table. ‘I need to use the van. Tonight.’
He screws up his face. ‘What?’
‘The van. I need it. Tonight.’
‘What are you talking about? Why on earth would you need the van?’
She sits opposite him. ‘I joined them, Bill. The people who want to protect everything. I joined them.’
His face darkens. ‘You said you wouldn’t.’
‘I didn’t say that, Bill.’
He lifts his mug, sips his tea, stares down at the table. ‘You should have told me.’
‘I know.’ She reaches her hand across, rests it on his. ‘I’m sorry. But I couldn’t. It all has to be secret, Bill. You understand? We’re not allowed to tell.’
His right hand grips the handle of the mug, his finger tapping against the porcelain. ‘What do they have you doing?’
She grimaces. ‘I can’t tell you.’
‘Is it dangerous?’
‘I haven’t felt in danger.’
‘What do they want the van for?’
‘I don’t know. But they need it, and me to drive it.’ She glances at the digital clock on the oven. ‘At nine.’
He lifts his mug again, puts it down, picks at the sleeve of his T-shirt. ‘Why’s it always so damn hot in this kitchen?’ He looks at the window. ‘I need some air.’
He walks to the back door, opens it, steps outside. She moves to the window, watching him crouch down at the border of the patio and tug a weed from the soil. The back of his T-shirt is splattered in white paint. His hair, unruly like William’s but lighter, glints in the sunlight. He stands up again, straightens his back, looks up at the sky. A strong man. She used to feel silly about liking that about him. It was silly, too – thinking someone was strong just because of how broad their shoulders were, how thick their forearms. But there was an inner strength to him too. There still is, she thinks – just not where drink is concerned.
She glances at the oven clock again. 6.15. She steps outside, feeling the breeze on her bare arms. ‘Bill,’ she says softly. He keeps his back to her. She walks closer, placing her hand lightly on his back. ‘I need to know, Bill. I’m sorry.’
She feels his chest expand as he breathes in, then exhales and turns around to face her. ‘You know I don’t like it.’
‘I know.’
They look into each other’s eyes. He inhales deeply again, breathes out. ‘The reverse gear sticks sometimes. You have a force it a little. Other than that, it runs well.’
She reaches her hand into his, squeezes his fingers. ‘Thank you.’
‘You’re a good driver, Rachel. Just promise me you’ll try to stay safe, okay?’
‘I promise.’
Two
Rachel brings the van to a halt in the driveway. She waits a few moments before climbing out. The encounter with the soldiers left her feeling on edge. The uncertainty, the unsureness of knowing who’s on whose side. But she is here now. Home. It’s her son’s birthday, and that’s all that’s important right now.
She inserts her key, opens the front door and steps inside. Williams appears first, from the living room. Then Bill, in the kitchen doorway. She can smell the corned beef hash in the oven. She exchanges a glance with him, then walks towards William.
‘Happy birthday again,’ she says, reaching her arms around him. His body feels stiff at first, almost reluctant, then he squeezes himself against her. ‘I’m sorry I’m so late back.’
He doesn’t say anything. She looks at Bill, then pulls away and squeezes William on the shoulder. 
‘I just need a few seconds with your dad, okay?’
William nods, then walks past her and up the stairs. Bill comes towards her. His breath carries the faint smell of beer, but he doesn’t seem drunk. She presses her head against his chest. He wraps his arms around her. She feels so tired, suddenly. And so – safe. Except she knows nothing is safe any more. She breaks away from him.
‘Did the cooking go okay?’
He nods. ‘It’s ready when you are.’
‘And the present?’
He nods again. ‘All wrapped.’
She smiles weakly. Even with all she is having to do, even though in the past she would have cooked dinner and wrapped the present herself without a moment’s thought, she still feels a guilt inside. ‘Thank you.’
Bill shrugs. ‘How was it tonight?’
She nods. ‘It was okay.’ She used to find it difficult, not being able to tell him, to tell anyone, about what she was doing. But now it just feels like second nature. ‘Shall we eat?’

Momentum continues to shift. Daily events can seem chaotic – skirmishes, infighting, gains in some places, losses in others – but as the weeks go by and summer starts to turn to autumn, the pattern is clear. The terrorists are gaining. Towns, and large parts of cities, fall under their control. They disband the councils, take over the running of services, install their own structures. Maps appear online, counties and cities broken down by postcode, areas claimed by the rebels marked in red. Some liken it to the spreading of a disease, a cancer. Rachel uses the image in her social media posts, plays up the hardships, the problems with security, electricity and water. But she finds it increasingly difficult for her stories to gain traction. The internet is crowded instead with accounts of people supporting the uprising, welcoming the changes that are supposedly being made, the windfall taxes on big businesses, the extra job security given to workers, the cash payments made to those on lower incomes. Rachel isn’t sure what to believe. She would probably support the changes too, if they came without a price. But everything seems to be happening faster and faster. Army and police are switching sides. Handfuls at first, officers defying their orders, then whole forces and units. As more defect, the government drafts in replacements from the territorials, and then with volunteers from the public. The number of uniforms on the streets, even in the village, is growing. The new recruits seem simultaneously jittery and cocky, as though scared of, and excited by, their own power. There are stories on the internet of atrocities – soldiers capturing suspected terrorists, holding them without trial, torturing and even executing them.
Rachel tries to tell herself they’re just rumours, hearsay, propaganda spread by the rebels. But still she feels a sickness in her stomach. It seemed straightforward, before. These leftists were breaking the law, causing chaos. People had to stand up to that. Try and maintain some stability, some sense of order. A couple of months ago she saw a story online, private shops being forcibly taken over in Gloucester. She imagined them marching through the door of her cafe, and it made her think of her parents having to close the shop after the Tesco got built outside the village. The frustration they’d felt at losing what they thought would always be theirs. Their sense of order taken from them.
But increasingly now, it seems that any chance of order returning is gone. Her own group, the village defence committee, has become more and more extreme, as though inured to the violence. Scum, she hears often now when the rebels are being described. Evil. Inhuman. Words to justify action. She is uneasy, but also scared. She is given a gun, told how to use it. She holds it in her hand, feels the coldness of the metal against her skin, thinks of William at home in his room, then squeezes it under the seat cushion of the van.
One afternoon, like most days now, she receives a text ordering her to report with her vehicle. But rather than the Transportation group, this comes from Kestrel. Or Robert, as she tries not to call him in her head. And something else unusual. Bring your car, the message says. Not the van. She frowns as she reads it, then tells herself not to question instructions. At ten to nine she steps onto the driveway, transfers the gun from the van to the glove compartment of the Fiesta and drives out of the village, then back down the network of lanes to the scout hut.
 She turns into the empty dirt car park. The hut is under continual armed guard now, and she nods to the man standing by the door, trying not to look at the machine gun slung over his shoulder. Inside the hut, Robert is sitting by the long table at the side, looking down at his mobile. The rest of the room is empty, save for the stacks of chairs at the back. He rises from his seat and walks towards her.
‘Rachel.’
She flinches at the sound of her name, and frowns at him.
‘It’s okay,’ he says. ‘There’s no-one else here yet.’
‘What’s going on?’
‘Something a bit different for you.’
 She frowns again.
‘You’ve done well, Rachel.’ He smiles. ‘As I knew you would.’
She’s not sure why, but she feels herself tense.
‘We need you to drive into Worplestone. Tonight.’
‘Worplestone?’
‘Yes.’
‘Alone?’
‘No. There’ll be someone else with you. He’s arriving soon.’
‘Who?’
‘Nobody you know. He’s from out of the area.’
She feels her brow furrowing. ‘Robert, what’s going on?’
‘Nothing. It’s just another operation. You’ll drive to Worplestone, wait while he completes his task, then drive back. Simple.’
‘Why not the van?’
‘Too conspicuous. The car looks more “normal”. Worplestone is – well, as you know, the rebels are more active over there.’
From outside comes the hum of an engine, and the crunch of tyres over dirt. The noise stops. Rachel looks at Robert, then at the door. It opens and a man walks in. Face lined with dark stubble, hair covered in a purple baseball cap. It takes her a second to place him. The man who sat next to Robert at the meeting, the man from outside the village. Behind him is a teenage boy in jeans and trainers, a blue hooded top pulled tightly over his forehead. The man, carrying something in a beige tote bag, nods to Robert then stands aside. Rachel looks at the boy. He is William’s size and shape – small and skinny, with traces of acne around his mouth and cheeks.
‘This is your cargo,’ says Robert. ‘It’s just the two of you, so you won’t need names.’
Rachel frowns again. ‘Is he—’ she looks at the boy ‘—how old are you?’
‘Eighteen,’ says the boy, fixing her a hard stare.
She turns back to Robert. ‘What is this?’
‘It’s just an operation. He’ll go in the front with you. If anybody stops you, just say you’re visiting your aunt for her birthday.’
 He looks to the man, who steps forward and hands her the tote bag, his face blank. Her arm tenses as she grips the handles. She glances inside, sees a package wrapped in colourful striped paper. 
‘That’s her present,’ says Robert. ‘You might need it for cover. And here.’ He reaches into his pocket and hands her a plain piece of card with handwriting on the front. ‘This is her name and address, in case anybody asks you.’
‘And what happens when we get to Worplestone?’
‘You know the King’s Head?’
She nods.
‘You park in the car park. He gets out. You wait.’ He looks at the boy. ‘Five, ten minutes?’ The boy nods. ‘He comes back, gets in. You drive back here. Simple.’
‘And what will he be doing?’
‘You don’t need to know.’ He raises his eyebrows. ‘You understand that, right?’ 
Rachel looks at the boy again, then away at the door. All this – the boy, Worplestone, the man in the cap staring at her – is different from anything she’s used to. She looks down at the bag again, frowning as she stares at the bright colours of the wrapping paper. Robert turns to the man. 
‘Can you wait outside? We’ll just be a minute.’
The man and boy walk away. When the door has closed, Robert steps towards her, puts his hand on her upper arm. 
‘Robert,’ she says, shaking her head, ‘there’s no way he’s eighteen.’
‘He is, Rachel. He just looks younger. That’s why we chose him. Look, I know this is different to your other work, but it’s just another operation, okay?’
Rachel stares into his face. For a second they hold each other’s gaze, then he glances at the door, takes a breath.
‘We have friends in Worplestone,’ he says, his voice low. ‘A defence committee, like ours. We need to get a delivery to them. Documents, hard drives, phones.’ He glances down at the tote bag. ‘I’m telling you this because I trust you. You understand?’
She takes a breath, exhales. ‘Yes.’
‘Good.’ He lifts his hand away from her arm. ‘Now you’d better go.’
She walks out into the car park. The man and boy are standing in the semi-darkness. She nods to the boy, who follows her to her car. She places the tote bag on the back seat then climbs into the front, watching as the boy opens the passenger door and sits next to her. She glances uncomfortably at the glove compartment, wishing she’d stashed the gun somewhere closer to her, then closes her door and turns to him.
‘How old are you? Really?’
‘I told you. Eighteen.’ His voice is deeper than William’s, his accent broader, not local. He stares ahead through the windscreen. ‘It’s better if we don’t talk.’
She shakes her head, then looks at the name and address on the card. Lynn Sharp, 19 Girdlestone Terrace. She repeats it to herself, then slides the card into the back pocket of her jeans. She turns the key in the ignition, manoeuvring the car out of the car park, up the track, into the network of lanes then eventually onto the trunk road. They travel in silence, darkness all around save for the tarmac illuminated by her headlights, and the anonymous white lights of the occasional car passing in the opposite direction. It feels strange, driving the Fiesta after all this time in the van, but even stranger to have this silent, sullen boy next to her. She thinks of William. Up in his room, hopefully. Reading. She needs to get him more books. God knows when the school will reopen. As long as she can keep getting him books, keep his mind active until this madness is all over and he can go back. He can repeat the year if he has to – the other kids will be in the same boat, after all.
A sign looms by the roadside: Worplestone 10 miles. She feels her stomach clenching. She’s not been to Worplestone in months, not since the trouble came properly to the county. She’s seen plenty online though, lately. Rumours of rebel gangs roaming around. Hard to know who’s really in charge, some locals have been saying. It’s not been coloured red yet, not on any of the postcode maps she’s seen. Outside of Ipswich, most of the county is still grey – but the red areas are getting closer, there’s no doubt about that.
5 miles. The boy sits motionless, gazing forward or out of the side window. 2 miles. Something ahead. She raises her headlights. An army truck parked sideways across one carriageway, three soldiers standing alongside. Her stomach tenses again. She dips the headlights, eases off the accelerator. A soldier – young, like they all seem these days – steps out, hand raised. She brakes to a halt in front of him, lowers the window. He leans down.
‘Where are you heading?’
‘Just into town. It’s my aunt’s birthday, we need to drop off her present.’
He looks across at the boy, who has pulled back his hood to reveal shortish, wavy dark hair, not dissimilar to William’s. ‘This your son?’
‘Yes,’ she says. And then, unprompted: ‘William.’
The soldier looks uninterested. ‘How long are you staying?’
‘Not long. We’re coming back tonight. My aunt is ill.’ Why had she said that? ‘We’re just going to say hello, give her the gift.’
The soldier looks into the back seat, glances at the boy again. In the rear view mirror, Rachel sees the headlights of a lorry pull up behind them. The soldier looks up, then back at the other soldiers by the truck, then he stands aside and waves them through. She drives forward slowly, raising the window as they veer around the truck. She glances again at the boy. Still he stares forward. They enter Worplestone. The streets are quiet, but otherwise the town looks much the same as before. She finds the King’s Head, pulls into the car park, begins to manoeuvre into a space at the back.
‘Not here,’ says the boy, who has pulled his hood forward again. ‘Over there.’ 
He points towards the middle of the car park. She frowns, then drives forward and reverses into a space next to a new-looking silver Mercedes. As she cuts the engine, the boy opens the door, climbs out, then reaches behind his seat for the tote bag.
‘Wait here.’
She nods, as though taking orders from a teenage boy has become normal. He pushes the door closed. She watches him cross to the edge of the car park, the tote bag clutched to his side, then he disappears round the side of the pub.
She sits, watching the digits of the clock on the dashboard. Her hands grip the wheel, her eyes darting around, on the lookout for – what, exactly? Anything out of the ordinary, she supposes. Whatever ordinary is these days. After eight minutes the boy reappears. She unlocks the doors, watching as he pulls the handle, tosses the empty tote bag into the back seat, then jumps inside. As he yanks the door closed, she can see his hand is shaking slightly.
‘Everything okay?’
He stares ahead. ‘Just go.’
   
The next morning she is in the café, serving Mrs Chaudury. A tea please dear, and a slice of that nice walnut cake. Then: And did you hear? About Worplestone? She looks into Rachel’s eyes. Evil, she says, shaking her head. There’s no other word for it. Evil.
Rachel nods, reaches for the cake knife, trying to hide the tremoring in her hand. As soon as Mrs Chaudury turns away, she fumbles underneath the counter, lifts her phone, jabs her finger on the screen. Dozens killed in Worplestone explosions. She swipes down the screen, her mouth open. Market Day. Town Square. 10am. Multiple devices. Over thirty dead, maybe a hundred injured. She stares in horror at the words. Pictures the boy next to her, his hood pulled tightly over the curls of his hair, his eyes staring ahead. The café blurs. The door dings open, and she jerks her head up to see a woman struggling to lever a stroller up the doorstep. Rachel ducks into the kitchen. She has to call Robert. She reaches into her coat pocket, grabs the black mobile, looks at the screen. A message from the Communications group. Links to news stories about the explosions, guidance on what and where to post, the angles to push. More terrorism, in the name of so-called ‘Revolutionary Unity’. Indiscriminate murder. Barbaric. Evil. And worse – rumours are that a child soldier was involved. A teenager, not yet eighteen, brainwashed into carrying out atrocities. 
Her hand reaches up to her mouth. Her legs start to shake. She stares at the screen, her body staggering back until it bumps against the worktop, then slides down until she is sitting on the linoleum floor, her back to the oven door, her head resting against the glass. She stares up at the hygiene certificates and food safety posters neatly displayed on the wall. No. This can’t be. It doesn’t make any sense. She reaches for her other phone, checks the internet again. The updates are coming fast, but the reports are confusing. The rebels are denying responsibility. She scrolls down, desperate for more information, then alights on a photograph, a young girl, six or seven perhaps, in a red patterned coat, lying still on the cobblestones, a woman bent over her, her face contorted, her mouth open in a scream. Rachel presses the phone to her chest, reaches her hand up to her mouth again, almost retches, then tips her head back, trying to breathe. A voice comes from the café.
‘Hello? Rachel?’
Mr Thomson. She stares at the opening at the end of the kitchen, slowly pushes herself up. Takes a couple of breaths, swallows, then calls out.
‘Just a second.’

She makes it through till two. Faiza, the girl she’s been paying to cover her increasing absences, comes through the door. Rachel tries to act normal as she runs through the outstanding orders and hands over the keys, then leaves the café. The village is post-lunchtime quiet, the sky grey, the air dense with the threat of rain. She pulls her hood over her hair, keeps her head down as she walks, helloing and nodding her way past Mrs Robson coming out of the florists, Martin and Judith walking down the pavement, imagining each time that they know, that they saw her last night, driving away from Worplestone with this, this – child in her car. Robert. She has to talk to Robert, find out what’s going on. Robert will be able to explain. Maybe the boy was doing something else. Maybe it was a coincidence. Or maybe he was trying to stop the terrorists, somehow. 
She arrives home, lets herself in, hears the sound of the TV. Walks through the hall, steps into the living room. Bill is sitting in the armchair, William lying on the settee. The news channel. A reporter talking to camera, behind her the cordoned-off wreckage of the market square. In the background, almost off-screen, she can see the hanging baskets outside the King’s Arms. 
‘Hi love,’ says Bill without turning, his voice low.
William twists his head, looks at her over the arm of the settee. For an instance, as she looks at him, she sees the face of the boy in the car.
‘Hi mum,’ he says.
She tries to smile. ‘Hi.’ 
‘You’ve heard, I take it,’ says Bill.
‘Yes,’ she murmurs.
‘It’s just—’ he shakes his head, still staring at the TV. ‘Evil, is what it is. Pure evil.’
The text at the bottom of the screen scrolls through the numbers. 34 dead. 5 children. 91 injured, 7 life-threatening. She grips the back of the settee.
‘You think William should be watching this?’ she says, quietly.
William twists his head again, looks up at her. She doesn’t meet his gaze.
‘He needs to know,’ says Bill. ‘He needs to know what kind of people we’re dealing with.’
‘Are they sure – that it was the rebels?’
‘Of course they’re sure. Who else would it have been?’
She stares at the screen. ‘I need a glass of water.’
She walks into the kitchen. Her hands are cold, but her skin is damp with sweat underneath her clothes. She unbuttons her coat, hangs it over the back of a chair and sits down. Robert. She pulls out the black mobile, finds his – Kestrel’s – contact. I need to talk, she types. She presses send, stares at the phone. Raindrops start to tap against the windowpane. Minutes pass, then she hears movement from the living room. She slides the phone under the table automatically but the footsteps, slow and heavy, are Bill’s. She puts the phone back onto the table as he enters the kitchen. He glances at it as he moves across to the fridge. She keeps one eye on him, the other on the screen.
‘Are you out again later,’ he asks casually.
‘I don’t know.’
‘Last night was – shorter than normal.’
‘Bill, I can’t—’
‘I know.’ He holds a hand up. ‘I just – I worry about you, that’s all.’
She looks to the window. The rain is falling steadily. ‘I know.’ She pushes herself up. ‘I need to go upstairs for a bit.’
She walks through the hall, up the stairs and into their bedroom, closing the door then lying flat on the bed, the phone clutched in her outstretched hand. She sees the boy’s face again, staring at the windscreen. Then William’s, staring at the TV. 34 dead. 5 children. The images oscillate into each other. She tries to focus on the ceiling, on the jagged paint crack that Bill told her was nothing to worry about. The faint sound of the TV comes up through the floorboards. When her phone suddenly vibrates inside her grip the jolt jerks her head up, brings the phone to her face. 
Bit difficult at home right now. I’ll contact you later. Okay?
She stares at the words, then puts the phone down. Somehow she feels faintly reassured. That she is not alone, maybe. That there is something she can wait for. She turns her head, stares through the window at the drizzle. Then she lifts the phone again, clicks on the message from the Communications group. Yes, she thinks. Work to do. Act normal. Do your job.
She gets up, walks across the landing to the spare room, opens her laptop. The internet is already awash with rumours, claims and counter-claims. She looks at the message on her phone again, copies the links across, pastes from the text, creates new posts, peppers them with words and phrases. Barbaric. Inhuman. No respect for life. Indiscriminate murder, sanctioned by people intent on destroying the country. The more she types, the more she sees comments appear under hers condemning the rebels, the more it seems real. 
She goes back downstairs. Bill is still sunk into the armchair, his eyes on the TV. William has a book half-open, his thumb guarding the page.
‘Can we switch that off?’ she says to Bill.
He glances at her, lifts the remote and presses. The screen is swallowed up into blackness. The sudden silence feels like a relief, then she feels her thoughts start to crowd into the vacuum. Bill pushes himself up from the chair. 
‘I’m going for a walk.’
She feels herself frowning, then looks down at William. ‘Do you fancy Scrabble? We could set up in the kitchen. You could put your music on, if you like.’
William glances at his page, then closes the book. ‘Okay.’
‘And I thought we could have sausages and mash for our dinner,’ she says as they walk into the kitchen, while Bill bends down by the front door to tie his shoelaces. ‘What do you think?’
‘Sure,’ replies William. ‘Sounds good.’
They play three times, William winning 2-1. There are a couple of words of his she could have challenged, a couple of longer ones of hers she could have tried, but other than that he wins fair and square. They listen to one of William’s music stations on his laptop – normally the noise would grate on her after a few minutes, but today she doesn’t seem to mind it. She drinks almost a whole pot of tea to herself. It grows dark outside, and she rolls the windowblinds down. Sometimes, when she looks at him poring in concentration over his letters, his hair morphs into the shorter curls of the boy, his face adopts the same blank stare. Sometimes she finds herself sitting in the car park, her hands on the wheel, her eyes glancing in the mirror for his return, or watching his arm shaking as he gets into the car, and William has to say ‘Mum’, remind her that it’s her go. She leaves the table three times, takes both phones from her bag then sits on the toilet, checking one blank screen for messages from Robert then staring at the other, too afraid again to click on the news.
William carries his laptop up to his room. Rachel sits for a while, then gets up and starts rooting through the cupboards. She orders in most of the cakes for the café nowadays, from Juliet two streets over. It’d be good to make one of her own again. Carrot cake, her old speciality. She potters about in silence, measuring out the flour and sugar, breaking the eggs, grating the carrots, beating the mixture, sliding the cake tin into the oven then, unable to bear it any longer, she switches on the radio for the six-o-clock news. There isn’t much new on the explosions. The authorities are continuing their investigations, they say. Multiple leads are being followed up. She imagines hearing a knock on the door, seeing the police car by the kerb. She shakes herself, focusses on the newsreader’s voice. A protest is planned that night, a vigil on the streets of Worplestone, the people called upon to stand in solidarity against the violence. The news cuts to a reporter in the hospital, interviewing two of the survivors. She switches the radio off, crouches down, stares through the darkened glass into the oven. It was a coincidence, she tells herself. The boy was delivering documents, hard drives, phones. Maybe they were trying to prevent the bombing. Or maybe it never happened at all. Maybe she didn’t drive over there. Maybe she’s imagined it all, or dreamt it. Like that time after William was born, when she convinced herself people were trying to get into the house at night, and she made Bill go downstairs every hour to check. She’s been so tired lately, like she was then. And it’s getting harder to tell what’s real and what isn’t, these days.
Bill returns home. She can smell the beer on his breath. She rolls her eyes, shakes her head. I only had a couple, he says. What did you expect, the way things are? She bends down, checks the oven again. Anyway, he says, his tone more conciliatory, I wanted to say something. She stands up, her gaze anywhere but on his face, his big, blue-green eyes, his beard she could lose herself in. I just wanted to say, he mumbles, how proud I am of you. You know I worry about you, but whatever it is you’re doing, anything to protect against this, this barbarity, I’m proud of you. He comes towards her, and she lets herself be hugged. Her chin pressed to his shoulder, her eyes fixed on the photograph hanging above the kitchen table. William in his yellow swimming trunks, playing in the sand. Bill blowing up the dinghy, his face red from the sun. And her sitting under the shade of the umbrella, her expression peaceful, as though nothing would ever change. 
I need the bathroom, she says, breaking away from him. She picks up the black mobile, sits on the toilet, stares at the screen. Still nothing. She clicks on his message, types When?, stares at it some more, presses send, stands up, flushes the toilet, looks into the mirror, then leaves the room.
‘Five minutes,’ she shouts. William emerges down the stairs. She dishes up, and they eat. Maybe they talk, maybe they don’t. Maybe Bill compliments her on the mash, maybe William eats everything on his plate, asks for seconds. Maybe she snaps when Bill goes to the fridge, when she sees William’s face. The boy’s face. Robert. The phone. All she can think about is the phone. William clears the table, Bill opens the dishwasher. I have a headache, she says. I’m going for a lie down. She climbs the stairs, sits on her bed, stands up, walks to the window, presses her face against the glass. She can just about make out the forest in the darkness, the branches now almost bare of leaves. Beyond lies the valley, and Worplestone. She sits back on the bed, the phone clutched in her hand. It gets to eight, eight-thirty, nine. She can hear the television through the floorboards, William’s bedroom door closing. She stares at the phone again. Then she reaches into her bag, pulls out her normal phone, scrolls down to Robert’s name, presses. Holds it to her ear, listens to the ringtone.
‘Hello Rachel,’ comes the voice, breathless but cheery. 
She freezes before replying. ‘Oh, hi Susan.’
‘How are you?’
‘I’m – I’m fine, thanks.’ She tries to rearrange her face into a smile. ‘And you? The girls?’
‘Oh, you know – coping, I guess you could say.’ Susan’s voice lowers. ‘You know how it is.’
Rachel stares at the window. ‘Yes.’
‘I was thinking actually, it’d be great to have you and Bill round again, have some wine, try and forget about all the horribleness for a couple of hours. What do you think?’
Rachel is silent for a moment. ‘Sorry Susan, I’d better go.’
‘Oh – but didn’t you call for Robert?’
‘Yes, but—’ she swallows ‘—it’s just, I have a problem with the computer, the accounting software for the café, I thought he might be able to help, but it’s not urgent, so—’
‘No, don’t be silly. He’s here now, he’s just been in the garden getting some wood. Robert,’ she shouts.
‘Thank you,’ says Rachel, quietly.
There is a silence, a brief muffled conversation, then she hears Robert’s voice, as cheery as Susan’s.
‘Hello, Rachel.’
‘Hi.’ She can hear the girls fighting in the background. 
‘Listen,’ he says to Susan, ‘I’ll just go in the kitchen.’
Another silence, then: ‘What is it?’ he mutters.
‘I need to talk to you.’
‘No. Not like this. You know that.’
She doesn’t reply.
‘Just wait,’ he says. ‘I’ll contact you tomorrow. Okay?’
‘Okay.’
‘Good.’ Then, louder: ‘It’s probably not as tricky as you think. I’ll pop by tomorrow to take a look.’
Three
Rachel opens the café as usual. Dons her apron, stands behind the counter. Pours coffee, slices cake, clears tables. People come and go. Trade is down overall, has been dipping steadily over the months since the uprising began. There are plenty of soldiers, though. A year ago she couldn’t have imagined it, but over these last few months the sight of uniforms in the café has become a comfort to her. Here, in the village, she has always been reasonably sure they were still on her side.
But now, as she carries over a tray of mugs and plates to the table in the corner, she avoids the gaze of the four young men sitting around it, talking in that casual, confident-yet-edgy way of theirs, their machine guns resting in their laps. She’s been avoiding gazes a lot this morning. Her movements are jittery, and twice she’s had to apologise for spilling tea on tables. She even forgot the carrot cake, still sitting in the fridge at home. It’s just tiredness, she tells herself – all night she pendulumed between asleep and awake, either staring at her bedside clock imagining police knocking on her door or dreaming strange, disorientating dreams. Twice she’d got up, walked across the landing, pushed William’s door ajar and looked across at him sleeping, something she hadn’t done since he was seven or eight.
She glances at her phone – at both phones – whenever she ducks into the kitchen. No more than usual, she tells herself. There are other stories jostling for attention – Exeter airport seized by insurgents, a revolt by fruit-pickers in Lincolnshire, the firebombing of mansions in Virginia Water – but the aftermath of the bombings still dominates the picture. Arguments rage about who sanctioned the operation, but the dominant line seems to have settled: a mindless act of terrorism by the rebels. People across the country are outraged. Martial law measures are being strengthened. The curfew, which so far has only been applied in vulnerable parts of towns and cities, is from tonight in force nationally.
The soldiers rise from their table, shoulder their guns and leave, their boots clattering out the door. She opens the till, deposits the notes and coins, stares down. How much is in there? How much could she withdraw from their accounts, with the new limits? Could they leave, hide the cash in their suitcases, try and get a flight to – anywhere, anywhere that would take them? Like the young family at number five. At least so people said. Just disappeared one day, left their house, their car, even their lawnmower out to rust. Escaped. She’d felt a flicker of jealousy when she heard people whispering about it. Then she told herself no. She couldn’t leave. She had a duty to stay, to fight to save the country where she was born, where her parents, grandparents were born.
‘Do you have any of that nice apple cake left, Rachel?’
She pushes the till closed, looks up, smiles. Customers to serve. Duties to carry out. She needs to distract herself, banish these thoughts from her head. The lunchtime rush comes and goes. She is spreading butter on a scone for Mr Thomson when the door dings. She glances up. Robert. Their eyes meet for a second, then she goes back to the scone. Lifts the knife, plunges it into the jam, layers it over the butter. Robert steps to the counter. Dressed smartly, in dark trousers and a light blue shirt. He seems taller than usual, somehow. She looks up into his face.
‘Hi,’ he says.
‘Hi.’ She looks across to where Mr Thomson is sitting, his coat still buttoned up, his gaze fixed upon her. ‘Just a minute.’
She finishes the scone then carries the plate over, putting on a smile when Mr Thomson thanks her, measuring her steps back to the counter where Robert is perusing the cakes behind the glass display.
‘I’ll have a vanilla slice, please. To take away.’
She nods, picks up the cake knife, slides it under the puff pastry, guiding it onto a paper tray. She does it quickly, trying to keep her hands from shaking.
‘Here you are,’ she says stiffly, handing him the tray. ‘Three fifty, please.’
He digs into his trouser pocket, hands her the coins. She drops them into the till.
‘That software problem you’ve been having,’ he says. ‘I’m a bit tied up right now, but if you bring your laptop round later I can take a look at it. Say around seven thirty?’
 
She sets off at 7.20. Bill is out again, William in his room. She made dinner early, spaghetti bolognese, something she didn’t need to concentrate on. She walks down the cul-de-sac, through the estate, onto the high street. The sky has darkened, the drizzle faintly visible in the glow of the streetlights. The pavements are quiet, although with her hood pulled down over her forehead she only really sees what’s in front of her. She reaches the cottages at the end of the village. The fourth in the row, the mustard yellow door. She glances up and down the road before pressing the bell. The bay window is dark behind the lilac curtains. She hears footsteps from within, a pause, then the door is pulled open. Robert stares down at her, glances onto the street, then steps to the side.
‘Come in.’
She steps inside. He closes the door behind her. The rest of the house is silent.
‘Susan’s taken the girls to her mother’s,’ he says, as though reading her thoughts. ‘Just for a couple of days. Can I take your coat?’
She unbuttons her jacket and hands it to him. 
‘You didn’t bring your laptop,’ he says, looking her up and down.
‘Oh—’ she feels flustered, realising that it hadn’t crossed her mind ‘—I didn’t think—’
‘It’s fine.’ He smiles, then hangs her coat on the mahogany antlers fixed to the wall. ‘I mean, obviously we can’t be too careful, but I’m sure it’s okay.’ He ushers her into the kitchen. ‘Take a seat, make yourself comfortable.’
She glances around the spotless kitchen, the slate tiled floor, the arty-looking black-and-white photographs on the walls, the warm glow from the recessed lighting. The last time she was here was probably that evening before last Christmas. Her and Bill, Robert and Susan and that other couple from down the road, the ones who moved out before the trouble properly started. It was okay, but she was intimidated by Robert and Susan, by how easy they were with each other and with their guests. She felt embarrassed when Bill stuck to beer instead of wine with dinner, and then she worried all evening that he’d drink too much and show her up, so she feigned tiredness and they left after dessert. 
Now she pulls a cushioned chair from under the oak table and sits, looking at the bottle of red wine on the worktop. 
‘I was just about to have a glass,’ says Robert, unscrewing the bottle top then reaching up into a glass-fronted cupboard for a pair of wine glasses. ‘Would you like one?’
‘No thanks.’
‘Sure? We all have to relax sometime, you know.’
She takes a breath, nods. ‘Okay.’
She watches him tip the bottle, the wine glugging out and sloshing around the insides of the glasses. He carries them across and sits half-beside her at the end of the table, his chair angled at a diagonal to hers. He takes a sip of his wine. She does the same then places the glass on the table, squeezing the stem between her thumb and forefinger.
‘Robert.’
‘Yes?’
‘What happened in Worplestone?’
He puts his glass down. ‘What do you mean?’
‘What did the boy do?’
‘Rachel, you know I can’t tell you that. For everybody’s sake.’
‘Yes, but—’ she feels her fingers squeezing harder, removes her hand from the glass ‘—the bombings – why? It makes no sense.’
He wrinkles his brow. ‘What, you think we had something to do with that? What you were doing, that night?’
‘Well, no, but—’ she feels confused suddenly ‘—what were we doing then? In Worplestone, the night before—’
‘Rachel,’ he says, frowning, ‘that had nothing to do with—’ He stops, shakes his head. ‘I can’t believe you would even think that.’
She feels herself reddening. ‘No, I didn’t – well, I mean—’ she stops, lifts her glass, gulps some wine, struggling to orient her thoughts. ‘It was just – we were there. The night before. So I guess I just thought...’
He nods sympathetically. ‘It’s okay, Rachel.’ He reaches his hand across the table, places it over hers. ‘I understand. It’s a difficult time. It’s hard to know what to think sometimes.’
She stares down at his hand, his fingers pressing gently onto hers.
‘You look tired, Rachel.’
She doesn’t know why, but she feels tears forming behind her eyes.
‘I’m sorry,’ he says. ‘It’s been a lot for you, I know. But I’m so proud of you, I really am. All you’ve done for us, for the cause. For the country.’
She looks up at him, blinking back the tears.
‘I should have looked after you better. Particularly since the bombings. I can see that now. I’ve just been – so busy, I guess.’
 He shifts forward in his seat. His left hand remains on hers, taking her fingers now into his grip, while his right hand moves towards her then down, resting on her thigh. She looks down, feels his hand pressing through her jeans, moving upwards. 
‘I promise I’ll try harder,’ he whispers. 
She looks up, her body frozen as he moves his face towards hers. 
‘Robert,’ she says quietly. ‘No.’
His hand moves up to her waist, squeezing. 
‘No,’ she says again, loudly. Then she moves her free hand towards the wine glass, grabs it and throws it at him. The wine hits his face, his chest, soaking his white cotton shirt in crimson blotches. The glass slips out of her hand and careers off the edge of the table, shattering as it hits the tiled floor. His mouth opens, then he jerks backwards in his chair. 
‘Fuck,’ he shouts, looking at her then down at himself, wiping his face with his hand.
She sits, still frozen, her face hot. 
‘Fuck, Rachel.’ He stands up, grabs a tea towel from the oven door handle, wipes his face and chest.
‘I’m going,’ she says, pushing herself up, feeling the weakness in her legs.
‘No you’re fucking not.’
‘Robert, don’t—’ she looks towards the doorway, aware now of her fear.
‘So fucking ungrateful,’ he mutters, tossing the lilac-stained towel into the sink.
‘What?’ she says, anger mixing with her fear.
‘Ungrateful. Like everyone else around here. Ungrateful for what I’ve done for everyone.’
‘What are you talking about?’
‘I could have turned you over, you know? Thrown you to the wolves. Some of the others, they wanted to. Cut her loose, they said.’
Rachel’s hands feel cold. ‘Robert, what—’
He stares at her, a half-smile playing on his lips.
‘It would have been so easy. We have the camera footage, you know? You driving into Worplestone, parking in the middle of the car park, your accomplice climbing out. Doing his deeds. One email to the police. That’s all it would take. Or perhaps it’d be better leaked online. She fits the profile, they’d say. Probably encouraged by her alcoholic husband, out for revenge after being turned down by the local defence committee.’
‘No.’ Her voice sounds alien to her. She grips the edge of the table.
‘Yes, Rachel.’
‘But the boy—’
‘What boy?’
‘The boy, in the—’
He raises his eyebrows. ‘I don’t know what you’re talking about, Rachel. Perhaps you’re getting confused. Do you mean William? Wasn’t it him with you, that night? Wasn’t it William you let out of the car? Imagine that. A mother, recruiting her own son to commit terrorism.’
She stares at him, then again at the doorway. She feels her head pulse, the blood surging like a tide. The kitchen starts to blur. ‘Why?’
‘I’ll let you work that out for yourself.’
She looks at the floor, the shards of glass strewn across the tiles, drops of wine clinging to the slate. She tries to think. To concentrate. To remember who she is. To make sense of everything, anything. But her mind is frozen. Even her breathing, it seems to her, has stopped. She forces her gaze back to Robert.
‘Why would you do this to me? I trusted you.’
He shakes his head. ‘Oh, you think you’re so special. Nobody’s going to care about you, Rachel. All that matters is that we win, that we stop this country being destroyed by, by...’ he trails off, shaking his head again. He looks at the wall, then back to Rachel. ‘I can still protect you, you know?’
‘I don’t want your protection.’
‘Oh really? I’d be careful what you say if I were you. Without me you’d be in custody right now. You’d probably never see your husband again. Or William.’
She stares at the floor again. Just one shard of glass. Just one, big enough. No. Think. She looks up to the doorway.
‘I need to go.’
He cocks his head slightly, as though studying her. ‘Fine. Go. Just remember the position you’re in. One false move, and...’
She doesn’t wait for him to complete the sentence. She walks past him, down the hall, grabs her coat, opens the door and bursts out into the cold dark night, her heart pounding, her breaths sucking in gulps of air.

She stumbles back through the village as though drunk or drugged. The front windows of the house are still dark. She steps inside, climbs the stairs, stops outside William’s room. Leans her forehead softly against the door. Stares at the slit of light by her feet, listens to the silence within. Tries to picture him going to school, coming home, playing on the computer with his friends, riding his bike in the forest. Eventually she pulls herself away. Steps across the landing, into her bedroom, onto the bed, lying on her back, staring at the jagged paint crack running across the ceiling. Trying to breathe. She turns onto her side, gazes through the window into the darkness, her knees pulled up to her stomach. And finally onto her front, her head buried into the pillow so her sobs can’t escape, her hands squeezing the sides of the pillow to her ears, her body shaking as she presses it down onto the mattress. 
She cries and cries. At first it’s painful, but then she doesn’t want it to stop. The world can go on without her, leave her alone, here in the darkness. Eventually the sobs subside. Her breathing returns to something like normal. She lies for a while, her eyes closed, her face buried. Then she lifts her head, looks at the alarm clock. Ten to eleven. Ten minutes to curfew. Bill will – should – be home soon. She switches the bedside light on. The pillowcase is wet with tears. She opens the bedroom door, steps into the bathroom, looks in the mirror, bends down, splashes cold water against her face, over and over, then looks again. Her eyes are puffy, ringed with darkness. Her hair – she lifts her arm, runs her hand through it. It will grow back. It will take a while, but—. She takes a deep breath, goes back out to the landing, sees the light still under William’s door, steps across and calls out, softly.
‘William?’ Her voice sounds light, fragile.
‘Yeah?’ comes the muffled reply.
‘It’s time to go to sleep.’
‘Okay.’
 She waits a few seconds then switches the landing light off, returns to the bedroom, pulls the curtains closed, undresses and gets into bed. From below comes the sound of the front door, then footsteps in the hallway. She switches the bedside light off, lies on her side, staring in the dimness at the framed photo on the bedside table. The two of them at Bill’s niece Anna’s wedding, her in that yellow dress she always liked, Bill in his linen suit, his smile broad, his arm fastened around her shoulders. He’d had a couple probably, but back then, when things were normal, it never seemed much of a problem. He could handle it, smooth it over. They could all handle it. 
The bedroom door opens. She focussed on the sound of Bill undressing, feels the mattress shift as he lies down next to her. She holds herself still, listening to his breathing, then shifts herself backwards so that their bodies are touching. He rolls onto his side and she reaches back for his arm, pulling it around her, squeezing herself into him. His weight, his warmth, his solidity. She slips her hand into his, squeezes his fingers, closes her eyes against the tears, then opens them and stares into the darkness. 
The next day she forces herself to leave the house, walk to the café, unlock the door, turn the sign around and stand behind the counter. Act normal. Act as if nothing has happened. Maybe if she pretends hard enough, if she really tries, then nothing will have happened. She feels as if she’s been separated into two. Her outward self – her feet propelling her across the linoleum floor, her hands carrying cups and plates, her head nodding as the customers chatter at her, her mouth moving as she returns their small talk – and her internal self, inhabiting a different reality altogether, looping thoughts and images through her mind. Bill. William. The boy in the car. Footage from the news, the aftermath of the bombings. Faces of the victims. The children. The vigil the following evening, the marches demanding justice. Robert. She feels his hand on her thigh, her waist. Her body tenses, releases itself with a shiver. Fuck Robert. Fuck him, fuck everything that he did, fuck this whole fucking—
‘I’ll get a hot chocolate please, and one of those nice flapjacks.’
‘Sure,’ she replies. ‘Coming right up.’
At home she cooks dinner, makes deadened conversation with William and Bill while they eat. Bill talks about what the news channels have been saying, what the people in the pub have been talking about. The responses the government is planning, the crackdowns. Roundups of suspected terrorists around the country. Emergency laws for indefinite detention. Closed trials. Internet blackouts. She nods blankly, turns to William, makes him get the Scrabble out. 

Two days pass, then a request from the Transportation group. Her first since Worplestone. She messages back, saying that William is ill and she needs to look after him. The next day she is in the supermarket with Bill and William. The gaps on the shelves have been getting worse, prices increasing, and Bill wants them to stock up before things get even more expensive. As he reaches down for a second bag of rice, she glances up the aisle to see Robert coming towards her. Susan next to him pushing a trolley, the girls by her side. She stares for a second, then looks back to the plastic packets of pasta on the shelves. She can feel her heart beating against her chest, and then comes his voice, cheery and bright.
‘Hello there.’
She stares at the wholewheat spaghetti, her body still. Bill looks up.
‘Oh, hi Robert. Susan.’
‘Stocking up?’ says Susan.
‘Yeah,’ says Bill. ‘You know how it is.’
‘Hey William,’ says one of the girls, Lucy. 
‘Hi,’ comes William’s voice, shy.
‘How are you, Rachel?’ says Robert.
She forces herself to look at him. He stands upright, one hand in his trouser pocket, an easy smile on his face.
‘I’m fine.’ She swallows. ‘And you?’
‘We’re good, thank you.’ He looks at William. ‘And William? Feeling better, I hope?’
William looks confused, turns to his mum. Rachel feels herself heat up, feels Bill’s gaze, forces herself to speak. ‘Yes, he’s fine. Thank you.’
For a moment they stand in silence. She feels as if everyone’s eyes are on her. A voice comes inaudibly over the tannoy. Susan takes a half-step towards her. 
‘Is everything okay, Rachel?’
Rachel forces her face into a smile, tries to ignore Robert’s gaze. ‘Yes. Just a little tired, I guess.’
Susan nods sympathetically. ‘Yes. It’s been hard for everybody lately, that’s for sure.’ She reaches forward, gives Rachel’s arm a gentle squeeze. Rachel tries to stop herself from flinching. ‘Anyway,’ says Susan, looking at Robert, ‘we’ll let you get on.’
They walk past, Robert veering the trolley around theirs. Rachel looks at the floor, hears Robert saying ‘Nice to see you’, hears the girls giggling to each other, hears their footsteps recede around the end of the aisle, then she turns to Bill.
‘Can we go?’
His brow furrows, and he glances into the half-full trolley. ‘But we haven’t—’
‘Please, Bill. I just need some air. Can I meet you by the car?’
‘Okay,’ he says, his forehead creased again.
He digs into his pocket for the keys, hands them to her. She turns, steps through the automatic doors and out into the car park, squinting in the sunshine. She walks across to the van, sits in the passenger seat, moves her hand down under the seat cushion, traces the outline of the gun. Stares through the windscreen, watching people from the village, people she knows, people she used to know, loading shopping into car boots, talking to each other like normal people, parents bickering over the tops of their cars, children wriggling as they’re strapped into back seats. She sees Bill and William in the rear view mirror, steps out of the van to help them unload. 
‘Take the trolley back, will you?’ says Bill to William. ‘You can keep the pound.’
William grabs the trolley, wheels it away. Bill turns to Rachel.
‘What was that?’
‘What?’
‘In there. With Robert. And that about William being ill.’
‘Bill—’ She is desperate to tell him. Everything. To have him listen, then wrap his arms around her, tell her everything will be okay, so that she could believe it, even for a second. Perhaps if he wasn’t the way he was, if she could trust how he would react, she would risk it. Let go. ‘It’s nothing,’ she says, looking across at William struggling to slot the trolley into the stack. ‘Just a disagreement. Nothing important.’ She looks back at Bill, sees the tension in his face. ‘Honestly, Bill. It’s nothing.’
From the corner of her eye she sees William coming back, stuffing the coin into his jeans pocket.  
‘I’ve never really liked him, you know that,’ says Bill, sighing. ‘But with all this, and all the things you’ve been doing – well, his heart’s in the right place, I’ll give him that.’
William arrives back at the van. ‘Come on,’ she says, fixing a smile. ‘I’m getting cold.’

Within an hour of getting home, as she loads the laundry basket into the washing machine, the mobile vibrates in her jeans pocket. Transportation again. Somehow she is not surprised. She crouches on the utility room floor, staring at the screen. Then presses reply. 
Yes. Rabbit can provide. 
Act normal. Carry on like before. Three days now since the bombings, and although the government is still vowing to bring the perpetrators to justice, there is a sense now that this is a war. Them versus us. That there is a collective rebel responsibility for the deaths. People who were against the nature of the uprising, but who might have shared some of their concerns or beliefs, are now, it seems, of one mind: these people are evil, and must be stopped at all costs. Those supporting the uprising, too, have closed ranks. While after the bombings Rachel could see signs of dissent on those forums sympathetic to the rebels, arguments about who carried out the bombings and why, now there is a hardening of opinion. In those areas still in government control, the areas still coloured grey on the postcode maps, the crackdown on anyone even suspected of identifying with revolutionary views has been so harsh, so systematic, with reports of teenagers taken from their families and locked up without trial, that from the messages and comments Rachel can see, the rebel position has hardened. The government is using their power to lie to the people. They will do anything to destroy us, so we must destroy them first.
There is also other news, other events to overtake Worplestone. The massing of rebel army garrisons in the Beacons, rumours of a planned assault across the border. A string of attacks on Scottish country houses. And the storming of City Hall in London, with rebels able to hold it for hours until special forces overcame them, the gun battle heard across the Square Mile, banks and investment houses evacuated.
Rachel sits on the settee, Bill in the armchair, shaking his head at the TV. Maybe nobody will ever know, she thinks. About Worplestone. About what she did. But Robert knows. And she knows. And when she takes the van out that night, watches the men in the side view mirror loading sacks and cases into the back, drives forty miles down the network of narrow country lanes to a farmhouse, watches them spring out and unload, she doesn’t feel like she’s carrying on like before. She may be acting normal, but now she wonders what exactly is in these sacks and crates, what exactly these men, increasingly few of whom she recognises, are plotting, preparing for. 
She dreads walking through the village, or even being in the café. Keeps one eye on the door, on the lookout for soldiers or police, although when she imagines them coming for her they are plain-clothed, anonymous. But mostly she fears seeing Robert. Two days pass – two days of looking over her shoulder, of jumping whenever the café door dings, of grabbing her phone every time she hears it vibrate – and then a message. From Kestrel.
Special Transportation operation. 9pm. Bring your car. And assistance.
She leans against the sink in the café kitchen, staring at the screen.
Assistance?
W.
A shiver rolls though her. William?
No, she replies.
No?
No. I’m leaving the group. No more operations.
Nobody leaves the group.
She doesn’t reply. Then another message.
Leaving the group = desertion. You promised to do whatever it takes to defend the village. Remember?
Still she doesn’t reply.
9pm. With W. If you don’t comply, you will forfeit our protection. Understood?
She drops the mobile into her bag and returns to the counter. Customers to serve. Orders to take. Drinks to pour. Block everything out. Everything except the here and now. The people in the café, the people from the village, ordinary people wanting tea, coffee, food, a warm place to sit down, someone to talk to. But nobody is ordinary now. There in the corner is Tony, used to help out in the youth club, used to help laying mines too. Coming in the door is Jean, retired butcher, joked with her in the scout hut kitchen as they cooked lasagne for the men out on patrol. By the window, four teenage girls, a year or two younger than William maybe, should be at school, instead sitting here drinking coke, laughing and showing each other their phones. And then there are the soldiers – some of whom have become regulars, but also new faces every week, faces she doesn’t want to know or trust.
She lasts an hour, before the lunchtime rush fades and she is unable to stop herself stepping into the kitchen, lifting her phone from her bag. Another message.
 If you disobey, we will have no choice. The evidence will be released. You will be implicated. And W. 
Then: 9pm. With W.
She drops the phone back into her bag, her arm shaking. Power. That’s what this is. A demonstration of power. Of Robert, of the group, of the leaders, whoever they are, over her. 
At two Faiza arrives, all smiles and self-conscious hand gestures as usual. She’s probably happy the school is closed, thinks Rachel. Maybe Rachel would have been too, at her age. Most kids perhaps. No idea, no sense of what future might await them without schooling, without education. Rachel hands over the keys, walks the streets home, her hood pulled over her forehead. Bill is out on a rare job. No sign of William. She climbs the stairs, stands outside his room, knocks.
‘Yeah?’ comes his voice.
‘Can I come in?’
‘Okay.’
She pushes the door open. He sits on the bed, the duvet bunched up behind him against the wall, his knees tucked to his chest, a book cradled in his hands. She hesitates for a moment, then steps across the carpet and sits on the bed beside him.
‘What are you reading?’
He lifts the book, shows her the cover. One of his science fiction stories, a present from Bill’s sister Helen a couple of birthdays ago, if she remembers right.
‘You’ve read that before, haven’t you?’
He nods.
‘You need new books? You should have said, we can go to the library, whenever—’
He shakes his head. ‘It’s okay. I like reading them again. I like knowing how they’re going to end.’
She looks at his face. His skin is getting worse again, his hair unruly. Ordinarily she’d be trying to persuade him to go to the barbers. Ordinarily—
‘Mum?’
‘Yes?’ 
‘What’s – what’s going to happen? With the school, and with all the stuff on the news?’
‘I don’t know, love.’
‘How long will you have to—’ he hesitates, his expression suddenly pained, the way it is sometimes when he places his letters on the Scrabble board, when he’s trying a word he’s not sure about ‘—you know, keep going out for?’
 She looks away. On his desk sit the two model planes, carefully painted. Above are his schoolbooks, lined up neatly on the shelf. Next to them, blu-tacked to the wall, the solar system poster Bill bought him years ago. She feels her eyes moistening.
‘I don’t know,’ she says again.
‘But—’ she can hear the hesitation in his voice, the frustration of knowing he isn’t supposed to ask ‘—why? Why do you have to?’
I don’t know, she wants to say again. Instead she takes a breath, forces herself to look at him. ‘It’s complicated, William. Like we said, when it started. Sometimes we just have to do what we think is right.’
She looks away again.
‘Mum?’
She doesn’t reply.
‘Are you okay?’
She turns to him, tries to smile. ‘Yes, love. I’m just – I’m sorry, that’s all.’
‘What for?’
‘For all this. For the school being closed, for all the stuff on the news, for – for me not being around as much.’
For a few seconds they look at each other.
‘Do you wanna play Scrabble?’ he says.
She looks down at his feet, at his toes curled up inside his white socks, pressed against the mattress. 
‘I can’t, William. I’m sorry. I have work to do.’
She half-reaches her hand towards him, as though to stroke his hair, squeeze his arm, something. Then she stops, stands up, goes to the door.
‘If you need new books just say, okay?’
‘Okay.’

She goes back downstairs, gets out the hoover. Starts in the living room, then the hall, kitchen, stairs, landing, her bedroom, the bathroom and finally the spare room, her eyes fixed on the carpet, away from the laptop on the desk. She mops the kitchen and bathroom floors, shakes out the rugs. Unblocks the drainholes in the dishwasher and fridge. Wipes down the kitchen surfaces. Puts on another batch of laundry. Bakes a cake for tomorrow – coffee and walnut, always a favourite. Glances at the clocks on the living room wall, her bedside radio, the oven. Two thirty. Three. Three thirty. Four. Four thirty. Five. She stands in the kitchen, trying to think of other jobs she can do. Boils the kettle, makes herself a cup of tea, sits at the table, stares out the window. Thinks of Robert’s kitchen. Of his hand on her thigh, the malice in his face, the way he seemed to enjoy telling her what he’d done. What she’d done. Why? What had she done to make him want to ruin her life? Rejected him, perhaps. But no, that was after. Or had she led him on, before? Behaved wrongly towards him?
She stops herself, shakes her head. No. She wraps her hands around the mug, lifts it to her mouth, drinks. No. She’s not going there, wondering what she might have done wrong, wondering how she got herself into this. He got her into this. He did wrong.
She squeezes her hands around the mug until they start to burn, then jerks them away. 5.25. Maybe she should text back, say she will go alone. But then what? She’d be complicit this time, in whatever he has planned. And he’d know he had power over her. And that’s if he accepted her not bringing William, which he probably wouldn’t. She should just not go. Would they really turn her in, with what she knows? But what does she know? Details of the group, faces, some names. But the group is on the side of the government, so why would the police, or whoever, be interested? The only thing she could give them is Robert’s involvement in Worplestone. But that would be her word against his, and she’d be already guilty. She can picture the camera footage in the car park – her red Fiesta, her registration plate, her face through the windscreen. The boy getting out with the bag. She pictures his grainy image, shot from above, and shivers – they could easily believe it was William. She’d tell them about the boy, and the man who brought him, but what good would that do? They’d never find them. Or maybe they wouldn’t want to. Maybe the story would be too complicated if others were involved, others from the village defence committee. It would look better for the government if it was just her. Her, working for the rebels, prepared to use her own son to commit terrorism. A monstrous evil to rally everyone against.
A wave of nausea rises through her. Think, Rachel, think. There has to be something she can do. Something she could try. What else does she have? The aunt. The aunt, in Worplestone. She pictures herself in the car, outside the scout hut, sliding the card into the back pocket of her jeans. She threw it away the next day, after she’d got back from the cafe, after she’d learned about the bombings. Tore it into scraps, stuffed it into the compost bin in the garden. As though hoping it would rot away to nothingness, along with whatever had happened that night. 
But she can still see Robert’s handwriting. Lynn Sharp. 19 Girdlestone Terrace. A name and an address. It’s probably fake, but then – if Robert thought the soldiers might have asked her, wouldn’t he have given her a real address? Something they could check up on. Maybe a real name too, someone they could call to verify her story. If she is real, this Lynn Sharp, then she must have been part of the operation. But then – if Robert gave Rachel her name and address, and they are real, and Robert turns Rachel in to the authorities, then he must know that she could give them the name and address, too.
She walks to the window, stares out onto the garden. A lone crow sits on the fence post by the garden shed, head cocked, one eye staring towards her. She turns, walks out of the kitchen, down the hall, and shouts up the stairs. 
‘William?’
She waits. ‘Yeah?’ comes the muffled reply.
‘I’m going out for a bit.’
‘Okay.’
She hesitates for a second, her gaze up the stairs, her hand on the banister. Then she turns, slips on her trainers, lifts her coat and bag, opens the door and steps outside.
Four
The streets are already dark. She pulls her hood forward as she drives, cracks the windows open, feels the crisp rush of air on her face. The trunk road is busier this time, cars, vans and lorries going about their business. She focusses on the carriageway, the taillights glowing red, the signs. Worplestone 10 miles. Worplestone 5 miles. Worplestone 2 miles. The roadblock is still in place, a queue now. She inches forward, watching the vehicles in front, telling herself to act normal, that she has no extra reason to fear the soldiers. She has her story ready. I’m visiting my aunt. Lynn Sharp. 17 Girdlestone Terrace. But like last time, she doesn’t need the details. A lone woman, late-thirties, driving a red Fiesta, pine-tree air freshener dangling from the rear view mirror. What threat could she pose?
She enters Worplestone, glances to the passenger seat at the map she hand-copied from the internet. Left onto the ringroad, past the industrial estate, past Waitrose, B&Q, the Range Rover dealership, then right into the town. She sees a sign pointing to Market Square, flinches, looks away. Reaches a T-junction, waits at the lights. Two more turns, then into a warren of terraced houses. Bill’s parents lived somewhere around here, before his dad died and his mum moved into the sheltered flat. She thinks of the first time she visited, so nervous she was, so young, so worried about making a good impression. She drives slowly, looking for the sign. There, fixed to the wall of the end house, almost hidden behind the creeping ivy. Girdlestone Terrace. She turns into the street, slows to a crawl, counting. 13. 15. 17. She pulls into an empty space by the kerb. 19. And now?
She stares through the windscreen at the house. The small front yard dotted with terracotta planters. Ivy creeping over the brickwork, cut back around the pea-green door, the metal letterbox glinting in the light from the streetlamp. Yellow patterned curtains drawn across the windows. No sign of light from within. She remains in the car. Then she reaches for the handle, pushes open the door and steps out. The street is devoid of movement. She thinks of the gun under the passenger seat, wonders if she should be carrying it. But what would she do, stick it in her pocket? No. She has to retain some sense of herself. Mother. Wife. Business owner. Member of the community. Not – whatever this is, whatever she has become.
She crosses the pavement, glances to either side, unlatches the gate, walks to the door. Looks down at her trainers, squeezes her eyes closed, then looks up, lifts her hand and presses the doorbell. She holds her breath, listening for movement. Nothing. Her finger hovers over the button, ready to press again. Below the normal eye-hole, she notices, is a second, around waist-height. As she stares at it, a noise comes from inside, almost startling her, and the door opens ajar, catching on the chain. A woman’s face half-appears in the gap, around the level of the lower eye-hole, angled to one side, short silver hair, lined skin, one eye looking up at Rachel.
‘Yes?’
Rachel stares at her. 
‘Lynn?’
The eye looks Rachel up and down. The voice doesn’t reply. Rachel fights the urge to turn and walk back to the car.
‘Lynn Sharp?’
The eye narrows. ‘What do you want?’
Rachel hesitates. For a second the two women look at each other, then she says: ‘Kestrel sent me.’
The eye flickers. There is a moment’s silence, then the door closes. She hears the sound of the chain being slid back. The door opens again. The woman sits in a wheelchair, side on to Rachel, her slight frame dressed in grey trousers and a blue woollen cardigan, her feet in brown checked slippers. 
‘You’d better come in,’ she says, glancing past Rachel to the street, before manoeuvring the chair around and wheeling herself down the wood-floored hallway. Rachel steps through the door. ‘Take your shoes off,’ shouts the woman over her shoulder. ‘And put the chain back on.’
Rachel does as instructed then follows the woman down the hall, her stockinged feet almost slipping on the polished floor. On her left a staircase leads up. On her right are two doors, the first to the front room, the second to the back. Straight ahead is the kitchen. The layout, even the stairlift positioned at the bottom of the stairs, is exactly how she remembers Bill’s parents’ house.
She follows the woman into the back room, a more tastefully decorated version of Bill’s parents’, ornaments and photographs arranged on the mantelpiece, shelves lined with books, thick lilac curtains drawn tightly across the window, a large landscape painting on the wall opposite. The woman spins the chair around to face Rachel, who stands half in the room.
‘You can sit down if you like.’
Rachel hesitates, then perches on the end of the brown leather settee. She still has her coat on. The woman tilts her head, as though studying her. 
‘Well? What did he send you for?’
‘Actually—’ Rachel stops, unsure what to say. Unsure why she is even here. The woman stares at her. Rachel takes a breath, composes herself. ‘He sent me here last Tuesday. The night before the explosions.’
The woman’s brow furrows. ‘I don’t understand.’
‘On Tuesday night I drove here. Into Worplestone. Kestrel gave me your name and address. In case the soldiers asked me what I was doing here. I was to say that you were my aunt, and we were visiting you for your birthday.’
‘And?’
‘And—’ Rachel stops, glances at the doorway. This is stupid. The woman probably knows everything. As soon as Rachel leaves, if she’s even allowed to leave, the woman will call Robert, tell him she was here. 
‘Well?’ says the woman.
Rachel feels hot, itchy. She looks down at the zipper of her coat, wants to yank it open, looks at the doorway again, then stares back at the woman.
‘Did you know?’
‘Did I know what?’ The woman shakes her head impatiently. ‘What is this?’
‘Did you know that he gave me your address?’
‘I know they use it sometimes, yes.’
‘But did you know about Tuesday?’
The woman sighs. ‘You’re going to have be clearer, dear. I’m sorry, but I can’t read minds.’
Rachel looks down at her socks. Supermum. The letters emblazoned in yellow and red, a pixellated version of her face inserted into a superhero’s cape. A present from William last Mother’s Day. She flexes her toes, lifts her gaze back to the woman. 
‘I was sent here on Tuesday night to deliver somebody. And a package. The next morning, the bombs went off. That’s what I was delivering. I didn’t know. Now they’re threatening to give me up.’ She takes a breath. ‘And my son, who wasn’t even there.’
The woman is silent for a moment. ‘Who’s threatening you? Who’s they?’
‘Kestrel. And the others.’
‘Which others?’
‘I don’t know. I only know Kestrel.’
‘But the bombings were the rebels.’
‘No. That’s what people are supposed to believe, I think.’
The woman’s brow furrows again. ‘You’re telling me that the bombs here, that killed all those people, were actually from the defence committee?’
‘Yes.’
‘I don’t—’ 
The woman stops. She entwines her hands, raises them to her chin. Turns her head, looks at the lilac curtains. She remains still, her gaze distant. Rachel watches her, unsure if she should say anything. The woman’s hands fall to her lap. She inhales deeply, then looks back at Rachel.
‘Why come to me?’
‘Because—’ Rachel swallows ‘—because he’s asked me to report again tonight. For maybe a similar operation, I don’t know. He wants me to bring my son with me. He’s fifteen. If I don’t, he says he’ll release my name, and evidence that it was me and my son who planted the bombs. And I – I just – there’s nobody—’ she takes a breath, fights to squeeze back the tears ‘—there’s nobody I could trust. The only thing I had was your name, this address.’
‘If what you say is true,’ the woman says quietly, ‘and he gives you up, or if you’d been stopped that night, you could have given that name and address to the police.’
‘I know.’ That’s why I came here, she wants to say.
The woman looks at the landscape painting on the wall. A slice of English countryside, a patchwork of yellows and greens, clouds massing darkly above. 
‘I’ve never met Kestrel, you know.’
Rachel doesn’t say anything. The woman grips the wheels of the chair, pushes. ‘Come with me,’ she says, wheeling past Rachel and out into the hallway. Rachel stands up and follows her, before pausing in the kitchen doorway. The layout again reminds her of Bill’s parents, but kitchen itself makes her think of Robert’s.
‘Come on,’ says the woman, wheeling her chair around the kitchen table to what looks like a pantry door in the far corner. Rachel steps across the tiled floor. The woman points without looking to the wooden chairs tucked under the table. ‘Grab one of those. You’ll have to squeeze in a little, but...’ she trails off, reaching up to the door handle.
Rachel lifts one of the chairs and carries it over. The woman pushes herself through the doorway, her wheelchair barely fitting. Rachel hovers with the chair, looking over the woman as she tugs a cord dangling just inside the room. Light from a bare bulb floods down from the ceiling. The room is small, pantry-sized, although the shelves and floor are bare. The only thing inside is a tiny wooden desk wedged between the walls, upon which sits a monitor, laptop and a mouse. The woman manoeuvres her chair under it, raises her hands onto the desk, opens the laptop and switches on the monitor. Rachel stands, half in and half out of the pantry, still clutching the chair with both hands.
‘Sit down, dear,’ says the woman over her shoulder. ‘You’re making me nervous, hovering like that.’
Rachel glances behind her, as though half-expecting someone else to come into the kitchen.
‘What is this?’ she says.
The woman doesn’t reply. Rachel squeezes the chair through the doorway, places it behind the woman and sits down. The woman types a password, clicks with the mouse. The screen is black, save for the whirring blue wheel in the centre. Eventually a window pops up, lines of white text on a black background. 
‘This is the communications network for your defence committee,’ says the woman quietly. ‘For all the groups in the county, actually.’
Rachel’s forehead wrinkles. ‘You mean – the phones?’
The woman clicks again with the mouse, taps on the keyboard. ‘The phones, the messaging channels, the encryption, the IP addresses, etcetera, etcetera.’
Rachel leans forward in her seat, squinting at the screen over the woman’s shoulder, but the text is too small for her to read. 
‘You can access it all?’
‘Yes. Well, I set it up, so I thought it prudent to make sure I could always access it. Just in case.’
Rachel stares at the back of the woman’s head, her short silver hair glinting in the light from the bulb. She opens her mouth to speak, but no words come out. The woman scrolls down with the mouse. 
‘These are all Kestrel’s recent messages.’
Rachel leans forward again, her hand gripping the back of the woman’s wheelchair, but the more she squints, the more the screen starts to blur. A sharp pain presses behind her eyes. She sits back, stares up at the cobwebs in the corner of the ceiling. 
‘Hmmm,’ says the woman, staring at the screen. ‘You’re Rabbit, I presume.’
‘I’m not supposed to say,’ says Rachel quietly.
‘I think it’s a bit late to be worrying about that.’
Rachel lowers her eyes from the ceiling, stares at the screen again. ‘What about you?’
‘What about me?’
‘Is Lynn your real name?
For a few seconds, the only sounds are the soft clicking of the mouse wheel and the low electrical hum of the monitor. ‘Yes,’ replies the woman eventually.
‘What do you have to do with all this?’
Lynn removes her hand from the mouse. Rachel hears her taking a breath. ‘I’ve known Kestrel on tech forums for years. Normal things, nothing like this. When the uprising started we started messaging each other offline. He asked me to help set up the communications for the defence committees. Let’s just say I have some experience of this sort of thing. And I was sympathetic to what he wanted to do.’
 ‘And now?’ Rachel hesitates, unsure why she is asking. ‘Are you still sympathetic?’
Lynn sighs. ‘I was worried about the threat to order. A country needs order.’ Her voice quietens. ‘But it’s too late for that now. It’s become a battle. These defence committees are becoming more like militias, from what I can see. I think they might actually be making things worse.’
‘So – what? You think we should have just let it happen?’
Lynn sighs again. ‘I’m not saying it’s easy. But from what I can see, wherever these rebels have taken over, things seem to have gone okay. For the people living there anyway. Of course the government says otherwise, but – well, I know better than most how capable the government is of lying to us.’
Rachel thinks of the reports she posted on the internet, the messageboard posts, the comments. ‘Does the group know? That you think like this?’
‘I suppose Kestrel might have an inkling, if he was prepared to compromise this address.’
‘But the system – all this—’ Rachel waves her hand at the desk ‘—that’d be compromised too, wouldn’t it? Why would he risk that?’
‘There’s nothing traceable on here. And anyway, the people finding it would be the government, or the authorities still loyal to it. I wouldn’t be surprised if they had links into the committees anyway. It seems to me that they’re tacitly encouraging all this resistance, this violence.’ She pauses. ‘The only thing they’d be interested in, I fear, is finding someone to blame for the bombings.’
Both women are silent. Rachel stares up at the ceiling again. She thinks of Bill sitting in his armchair, William on the settee. Wondering where she is, wondering what will happen with dinner.
‘The interesting thing,’ says Lynn, shifting forward in her seat and scrolling down slowly with the mouse, ‘is that apart from you, the only person Kestrel has contacted on this phone in the last five days is a number with no codename. He keeps asking for the boy, and the person keeps replying saying they can’t locate him.’
‘The boy,’ says Rachel, jerking forward in her seat. ‘That’s him. That’s who I brought here that night. That’s who planted the bombs.’
‘He’s been asking for him for tonight. But the last reply was ten this morning, saying they still couldn’t locate him.’
A shiver runs through her. That’s why he wants William. To replace the boy. 
‘But—’ Lynn hesitates, scrolling up the screen ‘—if Kestrel isn’t messaging anyone else in the group, about this or anything else, then it’s possible that he might be acting alone, or at least outside of the group.’ She pauses again. ‘He might have other ways of communicating, of course. But it’s a possibility.’
Rachel’s brow furrows. ‘You mean – no-one else might know? About that night? About me?’
‘It’s a possibility.’
‘So without Kestrel – this might all go away?’
Lynn takes a breath. ‘Like I said, it’s a possibility. But—’ she manoeuvres the chair around, twists her neck, focusses one eye on Rachel ‘—you realise that he might be thinking the same thing about you, right?’
For a moment the two women stare at each other, then Rachel reaches into her inside coat pocket, pulls out the black phone. 
‘I’m going to message him. I’m going to tell him I’ll be there. At 9. With my son.’
Lynn looks at her intently. ‘Do you know what you’re doing, dear?’
‘No,’ says Rachel, flinching inwardly as she clicks onto Robert’s last message. ‘But if I can at least make him think I’m still useful to him...’
As she types her reply and presses send, an extra line of white text appears at the bottom of the window on the monitor. Then another a minute later, as her phone vibrates.
100%?
Yes, types Rachel. 100%.

Rachel pulls onto the driveway. Leans forward, hands on the wheel, eyes staring at the front of the house. The living room curtains are drawn, a sliver of light escaping between the falls of the fabric. Could probably do with a wash, she thinks. The windowframes need recoating too, the purple paint cracked and peeling. Surprising that Bill hasn’t noticed, hasn’t got his brushes out, but then his mind has probably been elsewhere. Hopefully he’ll look after the house better, if—.
She stops herself. Climbs out of the car, walks to the front door, lets herself in. In the living room, the TV is on. On the screen a youngish couple stand in a large kitchen, smiling as they look onto a garden. The presenter tells them the price of the house, describes the amenities in the local village. The couple nod, smile. The kids will love it, she says. And it’ll make a nice contrast with our house in the city, he says. Something for the Weekend. A repeat, obviously. 
‘Hi love,’ says Bill from his chair. ‘Everything okay?’
She nods, looking at the empty settee. She could just lie down, watch the TV with Bill. Lose themselves together. 
‘Where’s William?’
Bill turns back to the screen. ‘Upstairs.’
‘Did you get the potatoes ready?’ She texted him outside Lynn’s house, her foot on the clutch, her head filled with permutations.
‘They’re in the pan. And the sausages are on the side.’
She walks into the kitchen. The pan sits on the hob, filled to the brim with water. She reaches her hand in, runs her fingers over the chunks of potatoes. The surfaces are still studded with peel, but they’ll do. She carries the pan to the sink, pours some of the water out, returns it to the hob and lights the gas. On the worktop lies the packet of sausages from the freezer. She presses her fingers against the film, feels the burgeoning softness inside, sets the oven, returns to the living room.
‘I’ll be upstairs for a bit. If you hear the potatoes boiling over, turn down the heat.’
Bill nods. Rachel climbs the stairs, stops outside William’s door. Raises her hand to knock, hovers, then lowers her hand and walks across the landing. Her bedroom door is open. She could go inside, close the door, draw the curtains, lie on the bed, bury herself inside the duvet. Instead she turns to the right. Pushes open the door to the spare bedroom. Switches the light on, stares at the desk. Then closes the door behind her.
She pulls out the wooden chair, sits down and opens the laptop. Enters her password. Waits for the screen to load, then opens her email. Clicks new message, begins to type. Step one.
Dear Susan,
The words are ready, formulated in her head as she drove back from Worplestone. A warning. About Robert, about who he is, what he did. What he’s capable of. But her fingers remain still on the keypad. No. It’s Susan’s life, not hers. She clicks the window closed. Opens Notepad. Step two. 
Subject: Robert Penstone.
She begins with the first meeting, five months ago in the scout hut. Describes everything Robert said and did, everything he organised. His threat to use violence against the uprising. The laying of mines, the transportation of weapons. She leaves out other names, careful to avoid endangering anyone else in the group. She includes his address, and a photograph copied from the parents’ association website – a couple of years old, but good enough. She ends with the Worplestone bombings. How he planned, organised and executed the operation, with the intention of letting the rebels take the blame. 
She squeezes the memory stick out of her jeans pocket, inserts it into the laptop, opens up the file Lynn gave her. Copies her text into the code Lynn wrote. Follows Lynn’s instructions, so that by 9am tomorrow, unless she deletes the code beforehand, the text she has written will be anonymously pasted onto every revolutionary-leaning messageboard and forum still online.
Step three. She clicks on her email again. Opens a new message. Stares at the screen. Closes her eyes. Opens them, and begins to type.
My dear Bill,
I’m so sorry. If you’re reading this, something has happened to me. I wanted to do the right thing. Like you wanted to. But I think I might have been wrong. It’s safer for you and William if you don’t know anything. If you can, get as far away from here as possible. Don’t try to fight, or cause trouble. Just keep yourselves safe. Please. For me.
She stops, staring down at the keyboard, her eyes half-closed, her fingertips pressed against her forehead. It’s too hard. Too much. She thought she could do it. But now—. 
She squeezes her eyes shut again. Sees Bill on the patio, smoke rising from the barbecue. William on the lawn, paper hat perched on his head, presents assembled on the fold-out table, his friends gathered around him. Bill aiming the hosepipe at him. William squealing, giggling, running. No. It’s too hard. She can’t—.
She takes a deep breath. Feels the air rushing in. Lets it out slowly. In. And out. Again. And again. Just do it. Say what you wanted to say. Don’t think. Just type.
I love you Bill. With all my heart. I always have, even when things got hard, and I always will. I know you have the strength to carry on, to fight the urges when they come, and to look after William and bring him up to be a man I know we can both be proud of. 
I am so, so sorry.
All my love, forever,
Rachel.
She stares at the screen, closes her eyes one more time, then opens them, saves the email to her outbox and sets the send time for 9am tomorrow. Then she folds the laptop closed, walks to the door, presses the light switch and steps out of the room.
She walks back downstairs and into the kitchen. Bill has turned the potatoes down to simmer. She slides the sausages into the oven, slices an onion and sets it frying for the gravy. She stands over the stove, staring half-focussed at the pans, sprinkling flour onto the onions, pushing them around with the spatula. The oven timer beeps. She switches it off, slides the sausages out. Empties the potato water into the sink, takes out the masher and forces it down inside the pan, her hand gripping hard, her arm pressing again and again, until her muscles ache and the mash forms a smooth, horizontal surface.
She calls Bill, asks him to fetch William. The three of them sit at the table. She dishes up, and they eat. She listens when they talk, humming and nodding when appropriate, her eyes glancing at the oven clock, her stomach tightening, her mouth unable to manage more than a piece of sausage and a forkful of mash. I ate something earlier, she says quietly as Bill and William divide the rest of her plate between them. She stays in her chair, looking at the clock as they clear away the dishes around her. 19:40. Bill goes back to the TV, William to his room. She is alone. She walks to the fridge, pulls out butter and eggs, then to the cupboards for flour, sugar, and walnuts. Puts on a pot of coffee. Sets the oven again, stands over the measuring bowl, her hand moving the spatula round and around. 20:10. She slides the baking form into the oven. 20:15. She crouches down, staring through the glass, watching the cake rise then start to brown. 20:40. 20:45. She switches the oven off, allows the cake to sit. Climbs the stairs to the bathroom, splashes cold water over her face, looks at herself in the mirror. Walks into her bedroom, presses her nose to the window. The trees of the forest are just about visible, silhouetted against the blue-black sky. She checks her watch. 20:50. Goes back downstairs, into the living room. The news channel is on, a panel discussion.
‘Bill.’
He turns his head.
‘I have to go out,’ she says.
A flicker of pain crosses his eyes as always, before he fixes his expression and nods. She looks at the beer can on the coffee table.
‘Can you do something for me?’
‘What?’
‘Please don’t drink too much tonight.’
He purses his lips. ‘I was only having this one.’
She nods. ‘Thank you.’
He turns back to face the screen. She watches him for a couple of seconds more, then turns away, walks back into the hall, up the stairs and onto the landing. Stands outside William’s room, her forehead leaning against the door. 
‘William?’
‘Yeah?’ comes the muffled reply.
She closes her eyes. All she can hear is her own breathing. ‘I have to go out for a while.’
‘Okay.’
She reaches her hands up, holds her palms flat to the door. Feels her fingertips pressing against the wood. Pictures him inside, lying on his bed, his head over his book. Imagines herself lying next to him, her fingers stroking his hair. Then she prises herself away, walks down the stairs, zips up her fleece top and anorak, slips on her trainers and steps outside.

The windows of the scout hut are lit. Like before, the car park is empty. She backs the Fiesta up against the edge of the trees, switches off the ignition, sits in the darkness. Outside the entrance a man sits in a plastic chair. Thick coat buttoned up, woollen hat pulled over his forehead, one boot crossed over the other, hands resting on the machine gun in his lap, eyes locked in her direction. She stares back through the windscreen. Paul. Left school at sixteen, hung around the village, doing casual work on the farms and for anyone else who needed it. Helped Bill for a while, back when projects were plentiful. Talked about trying for an apprenticeship. Used to come in the café. Milk two sugars, and usually a flapjack. She tried to forget his name when she first saw him on guard duty. Now she repeats it to herself. Paul. Paul. Paul. Paul.
 She snaps herself away. Reaches across to the passenger seat, squeezes her hand under the cushion, wraps her fingers around the cold metal of the gun. Slides it out, stuffs it into the side pocket of her fleece, zips her anorak up over it, then climbs out of the car. The air feels colder, somehow, than when she left the house. She walks across the dirt to the door, nods to Paul. Sometimes they search people. But not her, not Paul. She pulls open the door and steps inside. Robert is sitting behind the desk at the side of the room, leaning over an ordnance survey map. He looks up, straightens his back, folds the map together. She lowers her eyes as she walks towards him.
‘Rachel.’ 
His voice is calm, level. She stops in front of the desk, looks at him. He gestures to the plastic chair placed to one side. 
‘Take a seat.’
She pulls the chair around to the middle of the desk to face his, then sits, unzipping the anorak as she lowers herself down, plunging her hands into the side pockets of her fleece. 
‘And William?’ Robert raises an eyebrow.
‘In the car.’
He nods slowly, as though thinking, then breaks his gaze and glances casually around the scout hut. ‘Such a shame, all this.’ He sighs wistfully, then looks back at her. ‘We can be proud, though. Of what we’re doing.’
She presses her fingers against the barrel of the gun.
‘Rachel,’ he says, his voice now tentative, ‘I just wanted to say – I’m sorry. About the unpleasantness the other night. I shouldn’t have behaved the way I did. It’s just—’ he purses his lips, shrugs apologetically ‘—there’s so much to do all the time. So much pressure.’ He looks at the folded-up map on the desk, then back at her. ‘You understand, don’t you?’
She nods, and his mouth turns up into a half-smile. ‘You remember the first time I saw you, on that bus, William crying his lungs out? And then bumping into each other at the school, in the café. Normal life, eh? I’m just hoping once this is all over, once we’ve finally put this uprising down, we can get back to that.’ He pauses, smiling ruefully. ‘Something to hope for, eh?’
She nods again. A phone vibrates beneath the desk. Robert glances down, fishes into his pocket, pulls out a black mobile. He stares at the screen, his forehead lined in concentration. Then he taps out a message. When he looks back at her, his face is calm.
‘William will be getting cold.’
She doesn’t reply. They look at each other, then he shakes his head slowly. His left hand appears from under the desk, clutching a black pistol. He rests it on top of the map, the barrel aimed at her, his finger curled around the trigger. She flinches, tries to control her breathing. He leans his face forward, his expression hardening.
‘Why did you lie, Rachel?’
She stares into the tiny circle of darkness at the end of the pistol, feels her palms damp with sweat, tries to keep her grip on the gun inside her fleece pocket, tries to keep her voice steady.
‘It’s over, Robert.’
‘What is?’
‘All this. Wake up. The rebels are winning. You’re wasting your time.’
He shakes his head dismissively. ‘I knew I shouldn’t have trusted you.’
She stares at him, at his confidence, the power he assumes over her, the casualness with which he treats it. She pictures his hand on her waist, feels it squeezing, feels her face hot.
‘I’ve told Susan.’ 
His brow furrows. ‘About what?’
‘About everything. About what you did to me. What you tried to do. It’s all in an email. If anything happens to me, by tomorrow she’ll know everything.’
He stares at her, then his forehead straightens. ‘You’re lying.’
She doesn’t reply. 
‘Anyway,’ he says, ‘she knows already. I told her about you. About how you came on to me. How I had to let you down. How embarrassing it was. And you know what? She wasn’t surprised. There was always something sad about you, she said. Something weak, something needy. Maybe it’s her husband, she said. Enough to drive a woman to anything, having a husband like that.’
Rachel forces her body still. Tries to own it. Breathes in slowly. Breathes out. Holds his gaze, holds her voice.
‘That’s not the only thing I’ve sent. Every detail about you, everything you’ve done with the group, what you did in Worplestone, your name, address, photos – if anything happens to me it’ll all be posted online. On every revolutionary forum and messageboard.’
His eyes flicker, and she sees his facial muscles tense. The smile remains, but the forcedness is less hidden. ‘Even if that’s true, which I doubt, you really think I can’t access everything you’ve done, stop it being sent? I know a little about computers, you know. Who do you think set the whole communications system up?’
Rachel resists the urge to smile herself. She looks down the barrel of the pistol in Robert’s hand, moves her face forward. ‘In that case,’ she says quietly, ‘why don’t you shoot me?’
For a couple of seconds he doesn’t blink, then the smile drops and his eyes darken. ‘You stupid bitch. We’re going to go to your house now, and I’m going to watch you delete everything you’ve done. Otherwise I’m going to cause you and your family so much fucking pain.’
He jerks up from his seat, the chair clattering behind him. She remains frozen, her eyes staring up at him standing over her, his left hand pointing the gun at her head, his right hand reaching down to grab her hair, yanking it upwards. Pain shoots down through her scalp. She lets out a cry, her head lifting as he tugs harder, her brain unable to respond, and then something crystallises. Something automatic. Her finger curls around the trigger inside the fleece pocket. Her hand pushes the gun towards him. And then she fires. 
The explosion echoes off the walls, fills the room. Her hand vibrates with pain. Her body shudders against the back of the chair. For a moment everything is still, silent. Then Robert’s mouth opens into a scream. The gun loosens from his grip, clattering across the wooden floor. His right hand lets go of her hair. He reels sideways, stumbling, trying to grab the desk, then the space where the chair had been, and finally falling to the ground with a thump.
Rachel springs up, steps to the side of the desk. Robert lies prone beneath her. Now crying out in pain, his face contorted, his hand reaching down to his knee, a mess of grey trouser fabric and dark, seeping blood. The door behind her bursts open. She jerks around, one eye on Robert, the other on Paul standing in the doorway, his face frozen in confusion, his arm tangling in the strap of his machine gun as he tries to aim it towards her. She looks into his eyes, follows his gaze to the pistol clutched in her outstretched hand, the barrel pointing down at Robert.
‘Put the gun down,’ shouts Paul, half-stammering, his machine gun jutting towards her.
She looks beyond him to the door. Stares at the handle. 
‘Rachel,’ says Robert, between gasps of breath. ‘Don’t go. We can work this out.’
She turns her head, sees his eyes glancing across the floor towards his gun. She feels her arm tense, her index finger curling around the trigger of the pistol.
‘Rachel,’ he says again, his voice rising. ‘Don’t do anything stupid. This isn’t you. Please.’
‘Put the gun down,’ shouts Paul again, his face pressed to the sight of his machine gun, the barrel pointed at her chest.
‘Don’t shoot her,’ screams Robert. And then, almost pleading. ‘Rachel, please...’
Rachel stares at Paul. Pictures him lifting paint pots and brushes into Bill’s van on the driveway. Then in the café, smiling shyly as she places a mug of tea before him. Her heartrate begins to slow. She looks into his eyes, trying to hold onto the images, to take herself far from here, to take herself back, to detach herself from her hand gripping the gun, from Robert’s cries, from her finger as it squeezes against the trigger. 
The explosion fills the room again. This time her hand feels no pain. Her eyes remain on Paul’s. His mouth falls open, his gaze fixed on where Robert lies. Still she stares at Paul. Her ears hear nothing. No movement from below, no cries. Only silence. Paul looks back at her, the machine gun still fixed towards her. She feels her palm open, feels the pistol loosen from her grip, hears it hit the ground. Her body remains still, then she moves slowly towards him, her eyes focussed on his. 
‘Paul.’ Her voice is quiet, almost a whisper. ‘I’m going to walk out the door, okay?’
He stares at her, his mouth still half-open. She steps across the floor, veering around him and to the door, keeping a distance between them, her movements slow and steady, her arms by her sides. Her body feels heavy, as though pushing through water. He rotates around, keeping the gun trained on her. As she nears the door she stops and looks into his face, frightened and confused.
‘I had no choice, Paul. I’m sorry. I—’ 
I had to protect my family, she wants to say. But the words don’t come out. Instead she turns to the door. He doesn’t say anything. Just stares at her, the gun still pointed as she reaches forward, pulls the door open and walks out into the night air.
Her head is filled with everything and nothing. She walks across the ground towards the car. Her eyes are fixed only on the door handle, not seeing the faint movement through the trees, the footprints in the dirt around the front bumper, the slight indentation in the metal on the edge of the bonnet. She pulls the key from her pocket, her hand shaking as she fumbles for the button. She climbs inside, inserts the key in the ignition, pulls the door closed. Her mobile vibrates inside her jeans pocket. She pulls it out. Lynn calling. Not now. No time. She presses cancel, tosses the phone onto the passenger seat. Then turns the key. The engine clicks, then bursts into life. She pushes the gearstick into first, lowers the handbrake, manoeuvres the car out of the car park. One last glance in the mirror at the scout hut, then she pulls onto the lane and pushes down on the accelerator. 
The headlights sweep across the tarmac, the forest to either side swallowed into blackness. She thinks of Bill and William at home. Waiting. She tries to clear the fog from her head. To work out what to do. How to keep them safe. If she gets home, she can take them away. Take them away, then try to think. 
She pushes down again on the accelerator pedal, her eyes glancing into the darkness of the forest. The road descends into the dip. Her phone vibrates again on the passenger seat, the screen flashing. She glances down. Lynn again. She half-reaches over, then stops herself. Focus. Her eyes stare through the windscreen as the car picks up speed. Her hands tug the wheel, ready for the bend at the bottom, her foot moving across to the brake pedal, pressing down. The pedal jerks away from her foot. Her heart jumps. Her eyes flick down. She jams her foot down again. Nothing. The pedal flaps uselessly against the footwell. Her eyes flick up. The car hurtles faster towards the bend. She slams her foot down frantically. Again and again. Then the bend is upon her. She yanks the wheel to the left, the tyres sliding across the tarmac, her body lurching against the side of the car as it swings around the bend, then shoots diagonally across the road. She yanks the wheel again, trying to regain control of the steering, her foot still pressing instinctively, uselessly on the pedal, as the car careers off the tarmac and into the forest. All she sees is the tree trunk illuminated in the headlights. Then the force of the seat shuddering into her from behind. Her head lurches forwards. Her ears hear the screeching of the airbags. The whiteness, burning into her eyes. The explosion of sound. The searing heat. Then nothing.
Author’s Note
Thank you for reading Rachel’s Story. If you liked it, it’d be great if you left a review on Amazon. You can do that here (UK) or here (US). Reviews really help, both for me as an author and for readers trying to find books they like. 

Rachel’s Story is a prequel to The New Society trilogy. The first book in the trilogy, The Liberty Arms, is available on Amazon here (UK) or here (US). It takes place after the revolution and starts with Rachel’s son, William, as an adult. If you enjoyed Rachel’s Story, then I think you’ll like it. 

I also recommend signing up for my mailing list here. It’s where I let readers know of forthcoming books and special offers. It’s free to join and you can unsubscribe at any time. And as a bonus, you’ll get a free copy of Chapter 1 of the second book in The New Society trilogy. This book is a work in progress, so any feedback you give me on Chapter 1 may even end up in the book itself! 

Finally, if you want to get in touch, about Rachel’s Story, The Liberty Arms or anything else, you can email me at jack.fisher@thenewsociety.net. 

Thanks again,

Jack.
Acknowledgements
I’d like to thank: everyone at Berlin Fiction Circle for their invaluable feedback on chapters 1 to 3 and my writing in general; Brenda Fisher;  Leigh Fisher; Sean Enright; Elisa Haf; Alan Mead; everyone at Manchester’s Monday Night Group; and most of all Christiane Luck, always my first (and harshest!) reader.

