SHROUDED


A
Short Story

*


By 
J.L. SHOJOSH
*


Copyright © 2020 Joshua Nsangi. All rights reserved.

The characters and events portrayed in this book are fictitious. Any similarity to real persons, living or dead, is coincidental and not intended by the author.

No part of this book may be reproduced, or stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without express written permission of the publisher.
Published by R.B. Publishers, Smashwords Edition.







*


Prologue


A sandstorm wreaked havoc. The suffocating, blinding and tumultuous atmosphere was exactly the kind of scene that best suited the opportunistic pickpockets of Baghdad. The central market, teeming with spices from the South, and all manner of local crafts, and textiles from Lebanon, out west, was a melting pot that allowed the most slithery of folk to fester, and linger and lurk in the shadows. Thus, as the packed street of people held onto their scarves and robes, riding out the briskly swirling sandstorm, a scrawny figure, if watched closely enough, could be seen sneaking up from behind its prey.
The shrouded figure in black fabrics seemed impervious to the battering effects of the sand, which surely sipped into the darkly cloaked character’s eyes, if not violently.
From behind, a bony arm did swift work of untying the jingling coin purses from many an unsuspecting Iberian and Egyptian tourist. Four purses were swiped this manner, and a fifth was in the cards, when a merchant had spotted the crooked figure’s attempts, only to then rebuke the oblivious victim.
“Fool! Your purse flees you!” The old man’s coarse words were like a dagger to the mugger’s heart.
“Hey!” The large bellied traveler instantly bemoaned. In a burst of panic, he’d gripped his purse, only noting the flailing black garb of a scurrying mugger, slipping through the buzzing midday market crowd.
“Someone…! Halt that thief!” The Iberian traveler finally yelled, though in a strange enough accent as to cause no reaction from the dully staring merchants and ambled chatting locals.
At this point, the dust was clearing up enough to have folks loosening the grip on their face scarves.
“Bah!!” The tourist lamented, noting that, though his purse still clung to his hip, he looked more and more the dunce, standing there, out in the open street.

***
Several yards out, the running figure in black clothing came to a panting stop. There was an alleyway, which led to nowhere respectable, as dingy and as damp as it was. Looking to see that no one paid any mind to the panting and knee clasping escapades, clearly guilty of some crime, the dark figure now calmly ebbed its way through the dank and muddy alley.
“What you got there?!” A grim jawed character seemingly came out of nowhere. It was just as the dark-robed thief had reached the end of the thin, smelly alley. The pickpocket, a change of events, was the one to be ruffled, gripped and smothered about, as the large grim fellow performed a full body search on the scrawny figure.
“Unhand me, Ruga!” A shrill voice. A woman’s, nay, a girl’s voice, had finally barked out to the bafflement of the monster.
Instantly, the dark shroud was slipped back, revealing a young girl, no older than fourteen. 
“That’s all that I managed to get.” She’d insisted, throwing a brown flannel pouch up against the towering monster’s rocky chest.
“Nay! You wish to swindle me, little cockroach?” His deep and infuriated yet calm voice would reverberate through her ears, sending a cold chill down her spine.
“No, no –Never: Inquire after me. I’m sure that Belkadia’s account of events will –Argh, did I not flee for my life? Crizon, the butcher –he spotted me.”
“Mmmm…” Ruga, the muscle riddled bully would groan, suspiciously eyeing the girl before walking off in satisfaction.
Only once Ruga had turned his back on her would the scrawny sweating youth collapse her hands onto her knees. Her meetings with Ruga always seemed to knock more out of her than any dash through the dusty streets of Baghdad.
A long sigh of relief escaped her tightly clenched jaw, as she had her head bowed down.
“Hey, Aisha, you ok?” A smooth and friendly sounding voice was finally next up to greet the fatigued scrawny figure in black.
“Hey, Balthazar –Yea…it’s nothing, just Ruga being Ruga. I’m off the clock, though.” She shrugged, gleefully. Her bony cheeks rose, slightly.
“Great. Come keep me company, down at the river?” Balthazar inquired, as he’d brought his hand out from behind him and showed off his meshed up fishing net.
“Sure…” Aisha sized the lad from top to bottom before letting out an agreeable smirk. “You ask as though I have anything better to do.” She concluded, and let out a few oinks, as was her trademark laugh.
“No… I ask because I expect this to be the day that you tell me that you’re finally leaving this dump? I mean –you stick around any longer and I’ll begin to think that you actually like living in this crappy town, working for Ruga… Aisha, this city is no place for the average-born or the unlearned man –or woman, uhm, or girl.” Balthazar, the short, pale and thin youth had concluded, with his usual raising of one brow.
“Pshh…” Aisha scoffed. She walked past the twenty year old. “If this trip is going to be all about stating the obvious, then I’m not too keen anymore. I’ll be right out, though. I missed the prayer hour and I want to get it out of the way before it dogs me all day.” Aisha concluded, seeking to make her way into the large mud-building, through a hole at the base of its wall. By now, she was numb, deaf and blind to the gooey feeling of the muddy grounds beneath, or the pungent putrid odor within the thin strip of alley. She was home.
“You know, I still can never get that –no matter how many times you try to explain it to me.” Balthazar retorted from behind, forcing Aisha to turn back. She’d been just shy of the human-sized rat hole that served as the entrance to her shoddy home.
“What’s that?” Her lips twitched with disenchanted vigor.
“You never talk about your religion, or your faith, and I never see you actually putting it into practice, yet you adhere to the daily prayers?” Balthazar’s eyebrow rose up once again.
“Well, I wouldn’t expect you to understand… a Christian, a Jew, maybe, but you..?” She mockingly pointed at him, shaking her head in bemusement.
“There you go placing judgment on me, again. Judge not lest you be judged, is that not a thing that goes along with washing your hands and feet?” Balthazar bombastically spread his arms away from his body in jeering inquiry.
“Oh, shut up. Just stand there and pretend to at least look pretty.” She waved her hand at him, dismissively, before plunging into the dark hole in the wall.
Aisha’s head popped into view to meet a room filled with stray folk, the outcasts of society, the homeless bunch, like her, who slept on the hard dirt floors, and had nothing more than the clothes on their backs. She had to cross many of these rooms, whose landlord, Ruga, obliged a hefty toll for its residents to remain in the ‘neutral zone’, one of many locales where thugs were prohibited from stealing and stabbing the defenseless and homeless, unlike the ‘fair-game’ rules out in the open streets –where law enforcement catered mostly to the wealthy.
Finally, Aisha was up on the roof. During the day, the rooftop was empty, owing to the harsh rays from the baking desert sun. Aisha’s long thick dark hair flung about as she scanned the area one last time. It was clear. The roof had a knee high ledge, which like the rest of the mud building was wrinkled with cracks. Only one of the cracks was of concern to the young girl, though. Aisha would dislocate a slab of earth, seamlessly, from the edifice, like a three-dimensional jig-saw puzzle. The swarthy youth momentarily peered onto the cavity, left by the removed slab of hard earth. The scene looked right, untouched, and her leather-and-cloth pouches, bulging with coins, were all accounted for. She quickly reached down to her leather boots and pulled out three more jingling purses.
“A few more months… and then…freedom…” She grinned, whispering to herself, and taking a second to glean up at the cloudless baby-blue sky, before delving back down and fitting the block of rock back where it belonged.
Balthazar was surely getting impatient by now, especially with her having stopped a while to chat with a couple of people on her way to and from the roof.


1


Three months later…

It had been three days since Aisha last had a bite to eat. Those three days were excruciatingly long, and seemed colder than they ought to have been. And this was now the third day that Aisha’s arm rested on her lap, with her hand curled open, as she clung onto a black head scarf, broiling slowly underneath the harsh rays of sunlight. Things hadn’t at all played out how she’d envisioned. Her fantasies of fleeing to a distant land had gripped her imagination for well over a decade. Now, though, the only thing that stopped the young lass from picking up her past pickpocket-habits was the fact that the authorities would surely make an example out of her, as was customary of every foreigner, mostly traders and scholars. And besides, Aisha, the scrawny teen, was in too new a place to know where to hunker down for a couple of days. She knew no one. New land meant new faces.
I can’t believe that I actually miss that bumbling idiot… The dark skinned Persian foreigner had thoughtfully, bitter-sweetly concluded, with barely the strength to chuckle, as her head had tilted to touch her shoulder.
The skeletal figure was slumped to the side, a hopeless case to any and every haughty observer. Indeed, Aisha’s body just barely held itself up, as her back attempted to rest up against a boulder.
However, once evening rolled around, and desperation settled in, Aisha now found herself walking several dozen yards behind an old man. With the street clearing up, and perversely thankful that she had chosen a quiet path, away from the city’s centre, and in contrast to her previous two days, Aisha coyly ebbed forward in the dark and after the delicate figure. Several minutes of walking, out in the open stretch, and the pair were alone. 
Now, all Aisha had to do was briskly catch up to the grey haired hunchback and spark up a conversation. Surely an adolescent girl was no threat to an old man? She couldn’t have asked for a better target. Her heart beat faster, yet her mind moved slower. Like a predator that shuts out the world around it to hone on its prey, she ceased to be humane. Not more than ten rapid steps were taken before Aisha came to an abrupt halt.
The man, ahead, gowned lavishly, and whose ointment had attracted her to him as a potential mark in the first place, had stopped dead in his tracks. He turned back and immediately made haste towards her. Aisha’s thinking was spurned out of whack. She hesitated. Should she hightail it out of there, or walk up and face the odd, fast approaching elder?
The two figures strutted swiftly towards each other.
Aisha’s story remains as before:
She’s new to the place and trying to find the quickest route back to Persia.
“Hi!” Aisha waved, as they drew nearer. “I’m lost. I’ve been traveling-”
“You speak the truth, child. You are lost –but you’re also late…” The man stopped just shy of a couple of feet from her.
He sternly peered down at Aisha’s confused face, her left, right, darting eyes.
What does he mean that I’m late?
Her thoughts might as well have been background music, with lyrics about her troubled day.
“Come now, child. Don’t keep everyone waiting.” And just like that, the aura of mystic was further entrenched, as the wrinkle-faced lanky man swung his red and white linen rob, and turned back in resumption of his trek.
“W –wait! I don’t understand. Do I know you?” That was impossible. Still more, Aisha thought right to ask.
Not only was she far from home, Aisha was an orphaned street child… How could anyone be waiting for her?
A rush of current ran through her body, and chillingly up her spine, which still managed to give her a strange sense of belonging, amidst all mounting anxieties.
Aisha jogged forward to close the gap, as she tried to decipher whether the elder was some demented man or a mastermind that had momentarily derailed her plans of robbing him.
“Aisha…” The man finally uttered, causing her beady eyes to nearly burst out of socket. “We have plenty of time for me to explain why I followed you from Bagdad to Alexandria.” He calmly continued. “All you have to do is ask…” The elder motioned with his arm for her to move out of his way, and rather walk beside him.
Wait a minute. Did he just admit to stalking her?
Aisha once more stopped her forward trickle of a strut.
How did he know her name?
The old man’s poised demeanor was uncannily eerie, as he would coldly and slowly ebb forward into the embrace of the night, leaving her a muted figurine.
“Who are you?” Walking up behind the man, in ambivalent haste, though keeping her distance, Aisha would bark out. “I’m not going anywhere with you. Not until you tell me who you-” 
“Very well.” The elder cut her tongue, rudely interrupting her by raising his hand up and then motioning that she keep up, without once turning back to face her.
The old man spoke on, though the words reached Aisha with difficulty, he nonetheless enthusiastically continued.
“I am an instrument of a power that will raise you out of the pits of despair to which you’ve been relegated…”
“Oh, yea?” Aisha barked back, more out of instinct than anything else. “–and what power is that? Why me? And why have an old man as an instrument? And why-” Thus, once given a couple of seconds of silence, a river of questions burst out of the levies.
“Ah, yes, child. Your curiosity, and your adaptability –that’s exactly why you’re the right candidate.” The man retorted with youthful zest. His eyes brimmed, and the skin around them tightened to suit the skin of a man twenty years his junior.
The elder turned to her as they walked. His eyes narrowed with intensity, before he would conclude to ask her if she’s “…ever heard of The Order of the Hashashin?”
“Psshhh! There’s no way that you’re an assassin…” Her jaw dropped. She dubiously sized up the elder.
Was this some ruse? Why, though?
Indeed, only a network of assassins could’ve picked up her face and matched it to her name, and detailed her thus far traveled path. Also, was she to have been dealing with some normal thug, Aisha would’ve long been harassed, midway into her journey.
Among the pressing thoughts that swarmed the young Persian’s psyche, only one managed to find a voice, as the pair walked off to the middle of nowhere and away from any form of civilization.
“Do you have anything to eat?” As though the elder were dealing with a different creature altogether, Aisha’s eyes grew to a couple of tomatoes, as she boldly stared into his withered eyes.
“What took you so long to ask?” The elder smirked “Call me, Bizo, by the way.”

  
2


“Bizo?” Aisha broke a five minute long silence, having seemingly not exhausted all the questions that she’d had.
“Speak, child…” Bizo’s retort was prompt and dry.
“I thought only men were accepted into the Order?” The bulgy eyed youth had peaceably asked. 
The old man, she’d come to realize, was rather harmless, and though his jokes were not up to scratch, he sparkled in comparison to the abrasive and abusive Ruga.
“Well, we make sure that such rumors abound.” He grinned, keeping up the same moderate pace and showing no signs of fatigue, even an hour into the trek.
“You see,” he continued, “it suits us better that we nudge the narrative towards a destination to which end we have more of a clue. The Hashashin have many enemies –and until you pass the initiation, you too are an enemy.”
“Ok, so what happens if I fail?” Her brow turned pensive and her face screamed curious and freaked-out at the same time.
“Well, you won’t.” He casually concluded. His facial expression was untainted by emotions.
“That’s not an answer.” Aisha coarsely lamented. Her lips instantly contorted into a bitter grimace.
“Well, Aisha, you’re about to find out.” As the pair walked along a carriage-wide dirt path, which cut through a forest, Aisha saw nothing remarkable while the old man kept a lifted frail thin finger pointed into the night.
“So…what, you guys hide out in trees?” She scoffed, as she turned back around to study the elder’s flaccid face.
“We aren’t free to sit at the right hand of kings. That’s a thing of the past…” The pair walked for a dozen odd yards, before Bizo came to a stop, seemingly staring at nothing but shrubbery in the pitch blackness of night. “…the darn Fatimids have driven us underground, throughout the region, and we’re now the secret sect that you were born hearing tales about –Umayyad rule has not been kind to my kind.” Barely waiting to conclude his sentence, the refined elder had begun to whistle a chant.
It was the oddest melody, yet it sounded and felt and smelt like all kinds of familiar.
There was no time to ponder on why the song perplexed Aisha so much, as out of the darkness, the sound of ruffling shrubbery had sent the youth into a backtrack. Instantly, she’d clutched at her rags for robs and was poised to dash. Yet before doing so, she spotted a pair of shadows, in the dark forest. Aisha turned to Bizo. Her fright was made manifest by the swollen, throbbing veins all over her neck. Her bronzed skin reddened. Bizo smiled.
“What did you expect?” The elder finally blurted out with a shrug of the shoulders.
Not waiting for Aisha’s response, the old fellow paid no mind to the twigs and leaves and the spiky seeds that clung onto his expensive garments. Aisha stood muted, and remained a still fixture on the path. As stiff as a statue, she’d watched as the gap between her and Bizo grew. 
Bizo, for his part, didn’t even bother to look back. He was home.
“Hey, wait up.” Aisha cried out, snapping out of her daze, and realizing that her only source of food was getting away from her.
Her scrawny legs dashed through the dense vegetation, as she awkwardly waded and brushed several overzealous branches, which seemed to want nothing more than to slap the melanin off of the back of her neck.
Though Aisha could see the old fellow, Bizo, his figure, and those of the other two lurking shadows, it only took a quick glance down for her to look up from having to weave past a dense mesh of thin, green branches, for the three figures to vanish. There was nothing but forest ahead of her.
“Bizo?!” Aisha cried out. Her voice rose to breaking point, and in the shrillest of pitches. 
“This isn’t funny!” Still, no one showed.
“I’m leaving, you hear me?!” Aisha threatened, as she stood on her toes and announced to all of the night crawling predators, who understood her as saying that she was very much alive.
Aisha stood there a while, before walking a couple of steps forward, only to turn to look at the path they’d just trod. She could just turn back to Alexandria and revert to her old ways, despite the heightened presumption of its dangers.
“Is this the test?! –The initiation? What I’m I supposed to do?!” The thin teen scanned the dark scene anew. Who was she kidding? A long protracted groan was let out. And though only her body trembled, it was enough to give her the impression that the world shook in fear of her voiced frustrations.
“Think, Aisha, think…” the malnourished teen muttered under her breath. Her lips finally stiffened.
She gleaned the near horizon, however somber.
“Where last did I see you…?” No sooner had Aisha’s thin and dry lips come together, were the howling sounds of a wolf heard. It sounded but a few yards from her. There was no way that the beast hadn’t smelt her. Her heart raced, and instantly her skin turned hot and waxy as sweat readied to fall like a monsoon rain.
Aisha knew that without any weapons,  and with the wolf having picked up on her scent, there was no way that it was letting its meal get away without putting up major points on the scoreboard. Just a couple of feet away, three bushels shook. A twig snapped. Aisha gripped onto the nearest tree stem. Her nails dug into the tree’s dry bark. And then it hit her: the tree.
Aisha’s thin neck had let out a loud cracking sound, as the scrawny figure craned her neck to the skies. It all happened in a split second. Aisha found herself halfway up the tree, the rough dry bark scraping away at her skin, as branches tore her cheap garments asunder.
“What are you doing?” A figure came out of the shrubbery, below. It was Bizo.
“Will you stop fooling around? Your initiation is about to start.” He barked. And though it was dark, she could feel his pensive face. “Now, hurry up. And follow me, this time?” He briskly motioned with his arm as she painfully slid down, like a firefighter coming down a smooth pole, even though it was anything but.
Bizo had already begun to walk off again.
“Oh, no, not again…” Aisha’s nostrils were flared wide open, as she fought to keep up with her meal ticket. Uncannily, the pair disappeared into the night.



3
   
 Atop the lofty trees, and with the deadening silence slowly gnawing away at her patience, Aisha had all but given up on her test, if only for the moment. Left alone, in a log cabin, as intricate and yet trimmed as it was, and a glorious display of architecture, Aisha was ever the restless creature. She hadn’t hesitated to launch herself off the logged-cabin floors, and onto the knee high window sill, as her legs now dangled in the air.
The scrawny dark figure, enveloped by night, and without as much as a lamp to be spotted for miles, sat in that open space of a window, as air rushed in and out of her cabin.
Aisha heard a creaking sound to her left, in the next room. Tilting her head forward, her hands gripping the bottom wooden window-sill for support, she would just about make out a shadow. It strutted across the tiny confines of a room, neurotically pacing to and fro. Aisha knew agitation when she saw it. The Persian youth had had to fend for the right to eat from the moment that she’d blurted out her first words to Sister June, in the orphanage.
“Argh…” Aisha groaned, as she turned back to see an eight feet-long rope, coiled up and on the floor.
She was torn between contemplating the strange man in the room beside her, and how big the moon looked tonight, with no trees or homes to blot her view, as within her tree-house, she towered above most trees.
She could never just willy-nilly travel out to the country side, clear of any chattering crowds or galloping horses, and admire the stars and moon and how deep the night sky’s blue truly appears. The vilest of predators, an immoral man, could just as well see to it that her peaceful, star struck, star gazing escapades are turned into a hellish nightmare, which could not so peaceably be escaped.
The door behind her opened.
Aisha gasped and twisted her spine to look back.
“Oh…” Her enthusiasm quickly petered out. “It’s you.”
“I see that the task is as yet completed. I’ll be back in three hours.” A short bald youth, who looked just about her age, had professed, never once making eye contact.
“I’ll be asleep by then!” Aisha yelled out, striking the hard wood on which she’d rested. The slowly closing door stopped its motion, and the bald head came peaking back into view.
“I wouldn’t do that if I were you…” The boy whispered.
“Well, you’re not me.” Aisha turned to face the forest below her feet, having found the whole idea of an initiation trial rather absurd.
“Look, I’m not supposed to tell you this, but you’re my first initiate…and I’m not cut out for this…” He mostly mumbled, twiddling his thumbs.
“What do you mean I’m yours?!” Aisha growled. The nimble brooding creature was now halfway to the door.
“No, I’m sorry –I only meant that-”
“That what? –what did you only mean?” She pushed him back to the hallway, which felt more like a swaying rope bridge, tied between trees, and connecting the different cabins that hovered above the ground.
“I’m sorry... See, an assassin is trained by another recently trained assassin. There’s a chain of command, and, well… until you showed up, I was at the bottom.” Nervously, the boy looked around to see that no one was peeping out of their doors or windows, or clung onto a branch to spy on his efforts at directing the “initiation of virtue”.
“Well, go on, what did you want to tell me that you weren’t supposed to?” Aisha crossed her arms and watched the sweat drip down the lad’s face. He broke faster than you could say “damn, man”.
“In three hours –I’m supposed to come over and tell you that you only have a couple of more hours to finish your task, sunrise, after which, well…” His lips seemed to refuse to part ways, as he sternly peered at her, as though unable to break some awful enchantment.
“Agh, damn it, kid! After which, what..?”
“Hey, I’m the same age as you, to the day even!” The lad furiously bit back.
It was clear that he had some love hate relationship with his age. Was he the youngest person in this camp?
“Whatever…” Aisha sighed, falling just shy of apologizing, but using her eyes to bid the fellow to carry on.
“Well, think about it…you’ve seen our hideout. You’ve heard the stories about us… What do you think will happen to you if you don’t get accepted into the Order?” He concluded, in a low and coarse whisper.
Aisha had recoiled, gasped, and had wanted to grab the poised lad’s hand, only to have him flick his wrist so effortlessly, unloosening himself of her grip.
How did he do that?
“Hey, wait.” Aisha desperately stretched her arm out, as the boy leaped off the roped bridge, and disappeared into the darkness, with nothing but the sound of one twig snapping in the distance, signaling a misstep, as he leaped from one tree to the next.
“How the hell does anyone even fit a rope into this hole?!” She yelled out into the night, amidst the silent tree-houses of the Hashashin, while in her hand was a tiny needle. It caused a glimmer of twilight to be reflected against the shiny, tiny metal’s surface.
The door that held back the pacing neighbor, the shadowy figure beside her room, slightly cracked open, revealing nothing but the “Shhh!!” sounds of an irate dorm-mate, which soon filled the airwaves, if briefly, before the door was slammed shut.
“Yea? Well, “shhh!!” to you too, mister!” Aisha rebutted, menacingly, and walked back to her room with even more troubling questions.
Why wasn’t she allowed to see Bizo?
He led her to this forest, and to the initiation. He even creepily followed her all the way from Persia to Egypt.
Was she was to run away, and somehow make it out without being heard, then she would’ve gone no farther than two towns, before the long arms of the Order caught up to her, and strangled her dead. No, there had to be some way of getting out of this, she’d frightfully resigned, as the rope on the floor seemed to compliment the knot that she felt in the pit of her gut.
“I just have to fit this rope into the hole of this needle…easy…” Her trembling voice had failed to convince her of her statement.
It was impossible, if not madness, to fit or try to fit a rope as thick as her arm into a hole as tiny as an antling! What on earth were they testing her on?



4

 
Once morning came around, and her last warning having been given her, Aisha’s eyes burst wide open. The door had been kicked down. Staring her down was Bizo. His wrinkled skin made even more so by his pensive stern looking.
“Well?” He’d growled, as a different creature from the confidently poised elder with whom she’d travelled last night would surface.
“Your breath stinks, sure…if that’s what you’re asking.” The scrawny youth had bit back, flinging herself off of her bed.
He quickly scanned the room. To his shock, the entire rope had been made to pass through the tiny needle’s hole.
The mood changed, instantly.
A smile was now etched on the elder’s face.
“I knew that you could do it...” His cheeks were puffed up. He would walk to her and attempt to pat her on the head.
Bizo nearly took a tumble for his extravagances, as Aisha bobbed and weaved, ducking out of the way, just moments before her curly, messy hair could make contact with the elder’s leper-like hand.
There was an awkward stare down, as Bizo sought to tame the new initiate, while Aisha’s eyes would narrow out into two thin slits. For Aisha, initiation or not, her life had been threatened. But she was smart enough to know that there was no outrunning the Hashashin, nor were the odds favorable to her, should she decide to fight.
By the skin of her teeth, she’d managed the hefty feat, as the pair slowly and in unison shifted their eyes towards the corner of the room. The thick rope had been unwound, and its thin individual constituent strings were strung out, like making strips of spaghetti from a lump of dough.
Aisha could still see herself pulling at the tiny rope threads, a string at a time, and having to make haste, she surely looked like a headless chicken, racing around the room as she uncoiled and pulled the threaded strips out.
“Are you ready for your training?” Bizo inched forward.
“Where’d the little fellow go?” Aisha theatrically peered past him to the empty doorway, before her body sprung back to face the grey haired elder –dressed in a sheik black and gold garb.
“I thought the kid was supposed to train me?” she’d continued.
“Indeed, and train you he shall.” Bizo’s voice had changed. It sounded like the boy with whom she’d worked with during her initiation trial.
Aisha’s brows came together, her head had tilted to the side, as she’d tried to fathom how any of this was even possible. Was her mind playing tricks on her?
“How?” She’d pointed at him.
“That is a cheap trick. Disguise takes place on many levels… something you will soon learn, but first…” The elder raised his arm, with his garb causing him to look like a large bat with wings. 
He pointed to the open door. “…you need to learn the fundamentals.”
There was an eerie feeling that Aisha always picked up from Bizo, which she couldn’t shake off. It was an uncanny sense of familiarity that she sensed from the strange elder, which she’d chosen to ignore. Why couldn’t she shake off the feeling that Bizo meant more to her than was so far apparent?
There was a knock at the door.
A middle aged woman with the longest hair Aisha had ever seen stood in the doorway, her door-knocking arm slowly coming down closer to her body.
“The commander wants to see you.” A sweet voice whispered out to Bizo. The elder spun around so fast as to cause Aisha to blink twice in confusion as to what she’d just seen, or rather failed to see.
The whole time that the messenger spoke, she looked down to the corner of the room, and noted the disassembled rope. There was a heap of thin coiled-up threads on the floor. The messenger’s face seemed to display a tad bit of surprise.
Beside the stringed up threads from the rope was a shimmering tiny needle, tucked within the bulky web of thin strings.
“I’ll be right out, Yasmine…you know what?” Bizo looked at the woman and then back to Aisha. “Take our newest recruit for morning drills and then make sure to feed her.” He’d lastly concluded, making sure to turn back to Aisha when making mention of food.
“Aisha…” Bizo continued in a low whisper, once having motioned with his arm for Yasmine to give him a private moment.
“I couldn’t even hear her walking away, her feet seem like they’re made of feathers…” Aisha interrupted in marvel.
“Yes. Yes.” Bizo retorted in frustration. “Focus, Aisha. Now, remember, even though the trial is over, you’re only as good as you are useful to the organization. Every practice session is important-” Bizo had his fingers raised in gesticulation.
Aisha scoffed.
“You do not want to anger the leadership, Aisha.” A set of bony fingers gripped hold of Aisha’s brittle arms, as the elder had been but a moment away from rattling her into propriety.
“Please, just do as you’re told –and do it well…” Bizo muttered a few words to himself, as he retracted and sought to make his way to the door.
“Why do you even care if I live or die? You got me into this bloody mess! Because, why? –I needed bread and water?” Aisha looked down to her rumbling flat tummy, and then watery were her eyes, and blurry her sights, as she looked back up.
“I care more than you’ll ever know…you’d be rotting in an Egyptian cellar were it not for me. I couldn’t let that happen.” At the doorway, it seemed that there was more to Aisha’s recruitment than met the eye. For only the briefest of seconds, Bizo had lit up, and his voice had oozed out truth, and not just sincerity.
“Who are you?” Aisha groaned. Her fists were clinched. Her head vigorously shook as she stomped forward.
“I am Hashashin.” The elder dryly retorted.
“No –I. Who am I to you?” Aisha insisted, running out of the room, and after the fleeting Bizo, now on the swaying rope-bridge of a hallway they stood.
Bizo waved his hand and bothered not to turn back, as his garb flailed about menacingly, and as he strutted without as much as rocking the rope bridge an inch.
Coming from the opposite direction, out of another door, was Yasmine. Her face looked determined to carry out the orders that Bizo had imposed on her, babysitting.
“Hi, it’s great to be working with-” Aisha’s gleeful greetings were brought to a crashing halt, with nothing more than a flatly raised hand from Yasmine.
“Speak only when spoken to. Now, follow me…”
Aisha had frowned and wanted to childishly show Yasmine a piece of her mind, when she’d noted the gap growing too large in too short a time. With a shrieking grunt, the scrawny youth sprinted to catch up.
“Hey, wait up!” Oh, right, she wasn’t supposed to speak unless addressed. Her face recoiled in childish awkwardness as she ran on the rope bridge.



5
   
NINE YEARS LATER     

“Everyone who’s anyone will be there...” Yasmine had blurted. Her lips twitched, uncharacteristically expressive, as her sharp stare brutally attempted to breakdown Aisha’s thoughts. “Well,” Yasmine continued, standing up, and nonchalantly dragging her feet to the dresser on the opposite end of the room. She coyly toned down her projected interest in the matter. “Surely some anxieties exist, however tiny? –I mean, this is it, the day that Bizo’s been training you for these last nine years…”
“Pshh…” Aisha scoffed. “How many times do I have to tell you? I’m just in it for the free food.” Aisha swung her long dark hair, as she turned to look at Yasmine, catching the senior-assassin off guard back, and breaking the thick intensity of Yasmine’s staring at her back.
“Ah! Enough… You will do well to remember that you have no better friend than I.” The tall figure now approached Aisha. “How do you feel?”
“I feel nothing.” Aisha, nowhere near eying Yasmine’s chin, had likewise caused the ground to slightly tremble, as her stool had forcefully been pushed back, as she briskly stood up. “I’m hashashin.” Aisha dryly announced. “You know this: I have no past, and no name, and thus no fears.” Her lips were firm. She’d said it as though it were some mantra, but also as though in fervent reaffirmation of some sacredly sworn oath.
Aisha was unrecognizable from the scrawny youth that had opportunistically joined the group of assassins.
“Oh, no, we’re not done…” Yasmine, the lax and less brutish of the pair would grip hold of the stiff figure’s arm, as Aisha seemed poised to evade any questions by storming out of the room. 
“Hey…it’s me –not Bizo, or Romuel disguised as me. Aisha, you don’t have to pretend with me…”
“What do you want me to say, Yaz?! What? –That I’m scared that I may not make it past the first set of guards, before they realize I am who and…” Aisha’s speech had begun to turn mildly incoherent, her face was flushed, and the muscles in her cheeks shivered at will. She had to cut tongue. This wasn’t her. She was no whining toddler.
“I know what I have to do... ”Aisha continued, her eyes turned sharp, piercing back at Yasmine’s gaze. “Egypt is crawling with apostates. It has to be me. I was last inducted to the order, and only I can sneak in without a costume… ” Aisha breathed out. Instantly, her eyes hit the log-bundled floors of the quaint tree-house, before rising back up to Yasmine. 
Yasmine said nothing. Indeed, the full force of the royal guard would rain down on Yasmine, were she, or anyone else, to revert to disguise in order to get closer to the king. All it took was one traitorous and yet to be killed assassin to spot the disguised killer, who would normally go unperceived by the city’s large lay population. 
“The Order depends wholly on me for its survival. I won’t let you down.” No sooner having coarsely uttered this, Aisha struck the floor with a white powder.
A bright flash had overridden Yasmine’s senses.
The dark haired lanky senior stood in the center of the room, grinning and shaking her head.
“You deserve your space…” Yasmine finally muttered under her breath, with her slumped eyebrows weighed down by the realization that she’d acted selfishly…The ringing sound that always accompanied the flash bomb finally left her troubled ears, as Yasmine looked around her deserted room.
“So, what do you think…?” A firm voice came from behind. Calmly, without looking back, and as though expecting to have been watched the whole time, Yasmine would sit on the stool that Aisha had just vacated.
“She’s ready, master Bizo…” Yasmine wasted no time in retort.
“Hmm. You’ve grown rather attached to your assignment…” Bizo had barely concluded the statement, as he now faced out the glassless window, when the younger hashashin would spring up in self-defense.
“Sir, she’s always pulled through –no matter the test. I don’t doubt that Aisha is more than capable of carrying out this mission all on her own, in Cairo…but with everything riding on this, don’t you think it wise to send someone with her –backup? They can keep watch from afar.”
“You mean send you? You wish to hold her hand once again?” Bizo inhaled deeply through his large nostrils.
Yasmine didn’t know what next to say to the elder. She twiddled her thumbs, as half of her thoughts were occupied with trying to figure out where her best friend could’ve run off.
“Now, child, what do you know of wisdom?”
Bizo finally turned around.
His question was rhetorical, and thus there was nothing she could possibly say now to edify the tense situation.
“We stick to the plan.” Bizo announced. “All units, but one, are to be shut down across the region. The darn Fatimids are already nervous of our activities as it is, let alone when hosting the full gamut of dignitaries from the East. No…she will go to that gathering, and will offer her gift to the king… as planned. You only have one job now…” Bizo’s fine black and gold gown swiftly rose with his arm, as he gently patted Yasmine on the shoulder, like something a baseball coach would do. “And your job is here, in our camp,” he continued. “Make sure to keep the representative from Pamplona well fed, and his jug overflowing with water.”
The room went quiet as Bizo lightly walked back to the window, and the picturesque sunset scene within its borders.
“After all, we aren’t savages...” Bizo’s droopy face turned around long enough for Yasmine to spot the amiable smirk on his face.
In a bizarre sequence of events, the darkly cloaked figure would leap out of the window, as though fearfully escaping from raging flames. However trained she was, Yasmine only made sense of Bizo’s movements as a fleeting shadow. What place called him in such haste, she’d wondered, looking back at the open door?
Bizo had surely caught hint of Aisha’s whereabouts, and maybe sought to offer some moral support?
Which side of Bizo will Aisha be entertaining?
“Ah…” Yasmine mouthed, snapping out of her daze, and automatically she’d gotten her legs headed towards the dangling hallway-bridge.
The rope bridge branched out to the different parts of the ten-meter-high community of cabins in the trees. In no time, Yaz was opening a door to a dark room. She rushed past a moaning, tied up character, who’d tried to reach for her ankles as she walked past.
Yasmine calmly turned on a nail-dangling oil-lamp. The room looked to have expanded by several magnitudes, as the empty space was made pronounced by the room’s enlightenment.
On the ground,  the captive moaned, tied at the mouth, hands and ankles, he wriggled his way towards Aisha, as he craned his neck up, desperately attempting to mouth something. The unfortunate traveler, bearing gifts from the elites in Pamplona, had been ambushed by the Hashashin along the way to Cairo.
“Tell me, messenger…why travel alone? Didn’t want to stick out like a sore thumb? Well, you should’ve thought about that before dressing up like…” Yasmine stopped herself.
The mounting fear on his face was beginning to torture even her…
Hashashin killed those that they had quandaries with, and left the unconcerned parties out of their schemes. Torture and captivity was rarely resorted to.
“Here…” She stepped out of the room briefly and zealously swung back in holding a large, ugly metal jug. “Drink this…”
6


The lofty hidden community was buzzing. Every undercover medieval Tom and Jane had trickled in earlier that day, and wanted a glimpse of the young lady, in whose hands all of their fates rested. Granted, for some Hashashin, yet to be seen at any secret base for years, this was an opportunity for redemption –a show of belonging. The sun had long ago set and the moon now waxed bright and full. Beneath the usual elevated heights of intricately weaved tree houses, a tiny army of dark figures dotted the plain. The host of shrouded men and women seemed to just stand there, in the dark, and lent all their focus to one person, who seemed to be speaking for the entire group. This central speaker had his sights affixed to a shrouded, seated and slumped individual.
“What happens when we relinquish all forms of agency to one person?” The question was rhetorical. The elder, coarse was his voice, had carried on his rallying speech, pointing at Aisha. It was Bizo.
He had a spring to his step, as he seldom walked around in recognition of the crowd.
“Well,” he continued, “what happens is that we empower that person to rise above the expectations of mere mortals… enough has been said over the years. We shun any further speech… Now, we act. Tonight you head for Cairo, alone in your strides, but with a whole nation in heart!”
“Rah! Rah! Rah!” The chants had reverberated from the crowds, in agreement.
The leaves of trees all around were made to ruffle with no wind to blame.
“For, tomorrow…” Bizo continued, now taking the couple of steps needed to reach the seated Aisha, whose hand was being held by Yasmine, seating behind the show’s main attraction. Bizo crouched and eyed Aisha, raising her tucked chin with his curled up index finger. “…tomorrow…we kill the king.”
“Rah! Rah! Rah!” The isolated forest community yelled out.
Bizo’s fiery eyes, his every lifelong work had focused in the window of his soul. He peered sternly at Aisha. She sat still. The twenty three year gulped more spit in one seating than she’d thought possible in a lifetime.
“I have no past. I have no name.” Aisha’s raspy yet sure voice announced, with her head proudly raised. “Nothing is an absolute reality, all is permitted. I am Hashashin!”
She breathed in and talked at the same time, expressively, as her lips quivered in tandem with her wildly swaying voice’s pitch.
“Excellent.” Bizo had a huge grin on his face. He breathed in deeply and proudly through his nostrils, while taking a second to look around the crowd. He savored the half second. “Rise,” the respected elder dryly continued, “you are Prime-Hashanin. The reins of power are yours and The Order now serves thee.” Bizo raised his arm spectacularly, stepping back, and slightly bowing, as he’d allowed the young Persian to stand.
“Rah! Rah! Rah!”
Aisha unlinked her fingers from the tight mesh of Yasmine’s friendship and quickly stood to live out a destiny that she’d only been made fully aware of last year.
Bizo now rigidly pointed towards the path that had led Aisaha to the camp, those nine years prior. The journey had all the hallmarks of intrigue, solitude and danger. Aisha would have to go through Alexandria, which was less than a dozen miles away, and then on down south to Cairo, where the crowned prince’s wedding celebrations had long sparked off.   
Without looking back, firmly stiffening her lips, the young Persian began to walk off in the direction of Bizo’s adamant, pointed finger. The fresh and thick carpeting of grass beneath her sandals would give way to an abrasive patch of dirt road. The road ahead was as empty as the starlit skies above. It was dark. Even so, Aisha couldn’t afford to have her sights met by Yasmine’s sure to be emotionally afflicted face, an expression that no amount of darkness could’ve obscured. One look at Yas could’ve been all it took to cause a tear to stream down. She couldn’t.
Aisha was meant to be a cut throat killer, except, she wasn’t.
All of her assignments, even the much touted high profile assassinations, throughout the years, were carried out by Yasmine. It was their little big secret: every set of friends need to have at least one, they figured.
How could, or why would, the once seemingly strict, “don’t speak unless spoken to,” senior-Hashashin find herself in breach of The Order’s rules, and at the highest levels even?










7
  

SIX YEARS AGO

The last two months had seen the youngest member of the fledgling order of assassins undergo a growth spurt. Aisha was still the stubborn youth that Bizo had elected those three or so odd years ago. But today was a day of obedience. Elegantly dressed, wading through the bubbling crowds of Pelusium, Aisha found herself ensconced in the cultural and influential town, which often attracted wealthy visitors from the neighboring Syria. Her mark was Syrian, an enemy of the order: That, and the whisper of his first and last name, and the place and time he was last spotted, was all that Aisha had to go by for her assigned assassination.
“Hey, you look like you could use a place to sleep –free breakfast with your room too, yea? You hear?!” A ruffian of a man, as ragged and as pungently reeking as they came had yelled after the young lady in purple.
Aisha refused to reply, let alone give the lard-filled oddball, and the shoddy tavern that tethered him to the place the dignity of a look. She walked on.
The preoccupied townsfolk, could they feel her nefarious intent?
Aisha’s heart instantly began to beat up against her rib-cage.
Relax. Breathe.
I have no past. I have no name. Nothing is an absolute reality, all is permitted.
I…I am Hashashin.
Aisha’s thoughts were forced into coherence. She wasted no time bringing herself back down to earth. And then, there it was, there she was, on the other side of town, the wealthy cadre, and facing the large estate where her mark was meant to be for the next three days.
“Damn it…” The Persian teen muttered under her breath.
 “Hey, you lost?” A man, several meters above ground, snapped Aisha from her edifice gazing, if you will. He stood on the steps to his large lime white villa.
She’d been captivated by the sight of a chalk drawing, a banana-like image, meant to represent the moon. Hidden at the base of the estate’s walls, and as small in size as a finger-nail, the symbol was often used by the night crawling assassins to brand their foes.
“Oh, no, I’m not lost…uhm…” She chuckled, coyly, making sure to pull down her shroud, hide her face, and play to the ruling ideations of ‘propriety’ of the medieval times and of the dogmatic place.
It was him. That surely must be the man she was meant to kill. His priestly gown matched the rank and title uttered in accompaniment of his whispered name.
“Are you looking for someone in particular?” His accent, it was Syrian.
She got him.
“Actually… I sprained my ankle on the walk up here, and my aunt’s house is still quite a ways…would it be too much for me to trouble you for some water? They say it’s the best cure for most forms of discomfort…” Aisha’s teeth have never for so long been exposed, as she persisted with her forced and larger than life grin.
“Sure, let me help you.” Instantly, the religious leader with the ear of the Byzantine king had descended down the stairs in full hardy manner, surely to break a bone or two was he to take a tumble. “It’s a long way up…” He insisted, as he raced down to the slowly approaching Aisha, who wasted no time in offering him her arm, taking him up on his offer.
Okay. She’d made contact. But was she really going to go through with killing a human being? Goosebumps swiftly dotted her entire body. Slowly up the stairs, the pair rose to the top. Soon Aisha and her target would be hidden from the world.
C’mon, Aisha –the first one’s always the hardest. I can do this…I can do this…I can’t. I can’t do this, “darn it!” Aisha’s thoughts would instantly shoot out of her mouth.
“You okay –did I?-” The Good Samaritan had alarmingly inquired.
Aisha played along, realizing the trouble that she could be in, should she not properly rein in her loose tongue and jittery bones.
“Yes, sorry. I landed in an awful manner just then…” Her face was purposefully expressive. She concluded with a grimace to further drive home her point, not that her story was ever in doubt.
“Here…please, sit.”


**

Peeping from atop a tree, just outside of the Syrian priest’s villa, was Yasmine. The dark clothed skeleton had curled around the branches of the tree like a tensed up python. Yas had watched as her unsuspecting junior slimed her way up the steps and into her target’s abode. There was a mild crease on Yas’ face, the smile of validation as being a great tutor, though only one of three. 
After ten minutes within the home, Yasmine held her breath, gripping onto the three-feet-tall tree branch. There was Aisha, she must’ve done it, Yasmine had with relief thought, as she observed the swarthy Persian youth shifting her gazing, and on the lookout, before her steady descent down the stairs.
Yasmine almost shifted her body to head back to base before Aisha could get there. But before her gaze could shift away from the scene, she’d caught sight of the priest, only then stepping out and onto his high-porch. The Syrian’s large golden chain rocked as his red and white robes dangled with every wave of his flabby arm, his hand ecstatically bidding Aisha farewell.
“Damn it, Aisha…” Yasmine had mumbled.
A violent torrent of rage, needing instant taming, swirled within her gut. The Order’s goals were to be accomplished. And having a senior agent on hand during a rookie’s first assassination assignment always ensured the tying up of any loose ends.
When Aisha got back to base, she’d been congratulated for a mission well done.
“What do you mean?” Aisha had wanted to burst out. But reacting loudly would just as easily have meant a death sentence. “How did you hear about it so soon?” were instead the words that rolled out of her mouth.
Bizo had gone on to explain how Yasmine, who stood right next to him, had been charged with watching the ordeal, or dealing with the target, were Aisha’s courage to be found wanting.
“Oh, right…right.” And with a most plastic of smiles, the youth would excuse herself from the tree house community’s gaze.
The look now given her by others had changed from earlier that day. Aisha was now tainted. Like all of them, she was now a cold blooded killer.
Later that night, Aisha paid Yasmine a visit, and get the older assassin to fess up.
Yasmine liked Aisha. There weren’t many young women…Besides, every night that Yas went to sleep, she couldn’t help but hate herself, and Bizo, for going through with her first kill, which had set a decade of death into motion.
Since that day, for six years, Aisha would continue to grow a reputation for being a cunning and swift killer.
It was said that Aisha’s victims could never see it coming, as she had not that look that killers have… You see, Aisha oozed an aura of innocence. And yet not once has the young Persian Hashashin taken another human’s life. For six years, Yas and Aisha persisted on this charade, with Yas doing all the killing and Aisha preserving all of her innocence while also receiving all of the praise.



8


PRESENT DAY

Cairo. The city was packed and as noisy and smelly as they came in that region, probably the world too, for all Aisha knew. Her royal-sheik attire had garnered little to no attention. On that day, weaving and bobbing her way through the crowds, through the carriages and chariots that cascaded down from the royal palace, Aisha was but a dime a dozen. It took close to six hours before she would finally step foot inside the palace. The king was nowhere in sight.
“Next! –You have two minutes. State your name and give your message. If you have a royal invitation, brandish it now.”
A regal plebiscite with a scroll would seldom bark out these orders, as Aisha clumsily walked up to the slightly elevated platform. She had a tiny wood and gold chest, which fit neatly in her two palms when unchained from her hip.
“Greetings from House Cascillias of Pamplona… We offer our tribute and are honored to celebrate this union. May our peoples continue to share in each other’s times of both joy and sadness.” Aisha would solemnly conclude, raising the chest with both hands, and bowing her head, as the whole while her knees kissed the thick and lengthy red welcome carpet. 
Immediately, a young boy ran up to collect the gift, and before the older plebiscite up top could wave his hand in dismissive manner, Aisha leaped to her feet. The room was slightly taken aback, but civility reigned, as the hall watched the confident young woman reach into her silk Phoenician cloak and pulled out a golden card.
“My invitation…” She brandished the paper, raising up and nearly walking up to the stern man before her.
The man on the pedestal raised his hand, asking her to move no farther.
“I formally accept your king’s invitation on behalf of House Cascillias.” Aisha raised one brow when the room had gone quite for more than ten seconds.
It seems no one was expecting an unaccompanied young lady to feature in the celebrations, with no guards or other dignitaries by her side.
“Very well...” The man up top finally spouted, his lips seemingly gripped with the shakes.
“Right this way, ma’am…” Another gentleman would step up, away from the wall, and from the lined up row of other fellows in his exact thin white and gold garb.
“Thank you…” Aisha curtsied, for the first time in her life. It just felt like something she ought to do, having made it this far.
The hall, where thousands lined up to enter, was a marvel of ancient architecture. The way that the gold and silver played against one another was dazzling enough to have Aisha questioning her career path. The earthly splendor was encrusted throughout the room, its six walls. The junior assassin’s gown brushed the sparkling floor, as she followed the spritely servant up ahead: Aisha had no need to curl up her garb, and raise it above her ankles, as was typical since her journey’s offset.
Through a pair of large white thick double doors, which quickly closed behind the two bodies, Aisha wandered along. The pair walked through a thin, carpeted hallway, like a museum of old faces staring back at her. She was first taken aback by the portraits of old and embittered men with shrewd eyes, but no sooner brought herself back to focus.
“Not much farther, ma’am…” The briskly walking, lanky lad had turned back and uttered with a mandatory grin etched to his face.
“Right.” Aisha calmly uttered, coyly smiling back, and cutely shrugging her shoulders.
What was she meant to do next?
What would she say?
Was anything else expected of her?
There was no way that the king would be alone, and so, even when the festivities are at their highest, surely someone would instantly notice the poisonous dart on his neck, giving Aisha little time to escape as was told her by Bizo. The royal guard would definitely lockdown the palace. Everyone’s back story would be vetted, and Aisha, the young Persian claiming to be Iberian would stick out the most.
Was she making a mistake?
Her heart, though beating at a million thuds a minute, had done nothing to the complexion of her countenance. Aisha looked as pristine as the moment that she’d walked through those well aerated and posh polished halls.
Finally, the hallway of forever and gloomy paintings, and the occasional white busts, had given way to a large hall, dotted with tables and seats. But most importantly, the throne room loomed large in Aisha’s bulged and piqued eyes. The servant instantly bowed and excused himself, as if he were some intolerable plague was he to linger around the buzzing and chatty room of wealthy patrons. The buzzing room could care less about the new editions, the lot of them, spilling their drinks and laughing through their nostrils.
The thrones were empty, all four.
“Hi,” A man startled Aisha’s tense throne gazing. “Dare I say, it should be some form treason to have my lady unescorted at such an occasion…” The man looked eight months pregnant. His absurd thick curled mustache wasted no time rubbing against her wrists, as his gourmet infested lips slobbered on her white glove when he kissed her hands.
“I’m Emir Abboudi, pleased to meet your graceful acquaintance, lady…?”
He waited for a reply that didn’t come.
It wasn’t that Aisha was being rude, though she had every right to be, since his reputation was dirtier than a hog’s behind. Her sights were captured. She’d seen someone that she’d believed was surely a trick of the mind.
Emir Abboudi was set to rapture into a fit, feeling disrespected by the unreciprocated greeting. But man instantly walked up on the duo, towering over the pair, he stared down at Aisha for a brief moment, before the Emir would fearfully fall apart.
“I’m sorry, General Balthazar. I didn’t know that this was your woman. I didn’t mean to-” The Emir was cut off, brushed aside by the grim warrior.
“Aisha, is that really you?” Balthazar’s smooth, deep voice reverberated through her eardrums. 
His eyes darted from left to right, studying her face. Here was her childhood friend from the streets of Baghdad, during the good old pickpocket days.
“My eyes deceive me…” Aisha finally gushed out.
She clasped onto her open mouth with both hands.
Emir Abboudi awkwardly backed himself away with his tail between his legs, and without any other uttered peep.
“What are you doing in Cairo? –I woke up one morning and… you were gone.” Balthazar chuckled. “Right after we spent the afternoon fishing. I couldn’t help but feel happy that I finally pushed you into chasing your dream…”
“Tshh, yes. I remember it like it was yesterday…” Aisha glanced down at the gorgeous marbled floors, as music played on in the background, and as the buzzing of the crowd only got the senses number. 
“You couldn’t shut up about me leaving…” Aisha continued. “And you were right. I was ready to leave a long time ago. Growing up and facing my fear of change, though, however badly I said that I wanted it, well, that was something entirely different. So, did I hear someone call you general?”
“Yes, it comes with cool badges, medals, and gadgets, so I was sold…” He grinned nervously, scratching his elbow, a sight that surely came as a big surprise to the gossiping single women of haut society, who swirled their wine glasses and pretended not to have their ninth eye affixed to the prized bachelor and the foreign, no-name woman.
“So, you got a royal invitation, I see…” He cleared his throat.
Aisha said nothing, assuming the question to be rhetorical.
“Are you here with some rich Emir or some-”
“Alone.” She rebuffed. “So, are you going to continue to be rude or are you going to offer me a drink?”
“Right. Right.” Balthazar was taken aback, so much so that he found himself searching his person, as though the drinks were hidden in his armor, or clinging onto his thick red cape.
But Balthazar quickly regained composure, to where his reputation was still unscathed, snapping his fingers at one of the servants strutting around with a tray of drinks.
“So, tell me. Who are you now?” Balthazar would conclude, his eyes getting serious, as he burrowed down her soul.
“Balthazar, I…I can’t lie to you…” Aisha, with the longest sigh, would then follow up with asking Egypt’s top ranking general whether they could “talk in private…do you know a place?”
“Let’s go to my chambers…” Balthazar coarsely announced, firmly nodding his head, as though he were dealing in transactional terms. He gripped his sword and led the way out of the room, through a backdoor, on the opposite end from whence Aisha had just come. 



9
     
The thick wooden door forcefully thudded against the brick edifice. Balthazar raced out of the room. Standing in the doorway was Aisha, her fingernails at her teeth, rattling against her white crowns. What had she just done? She looked around at the empty hallway, noting her childhood friend at the end of the hall. Only then did Balthazar look back and yell at her.
“Stay in my room. You’ll be safe there!” And just like that, General Balthazar had vanished to some inner sanctum.
He was surely to raise a force to march north that very night, and root out one of the last remaining Hashashin strongholds near Alexandria. For the last three hours, he’d gleaned everything about the order, passing no judgment on Aisha as he listened.
Why Aisha would fess up to Balthazar was beyond him. He mostly settled for figuring that the underground life must’ve once more caught up to her, and she now needed an out. She needed a friend. And Balthazar was more than willing to quash a rebellion for his king, while saving his long lost friend from the clasps of an insidious order of killers. For him, there chance encounter was, in fact, fate, a way for Aisha to start afresh. After all, “a life of killing is no fate for a woman of great value.” Aisha hadn’t corrected him when he’d stereotyped her. She was, after all, part of a murderous order nonetheless.
Walking away from Balthazar’s chambers, in the opposite direction to where the general had run off, Aisha was in a fit of panic, and barefoot. The dark hallway, a maze, a scarcely illuminated cage with torches on the wall, would at the last minute reveal a grotesque shadow in hiding. The figure popped out of nowhere.
Aisha shuddered and scurried back, only to notice that it was a woman in a shrouded, thick black robe…it was…
“Yas?! What are you…”
“No, Aisha. What are you doing?” Yasmine finally walked out into the open, and had pointed back to the room from whence Aisha had just come.
“Nothing.” Aisha awkwardly rested her balled up fists onto her hips.
“That’s exactly it. Nothing. You can’t do that –not for this…Are you forgetting how much is riding on this…how many lives depend on you? Do you understand?”
“I’ve made a mistake.” Aisha would instantly cut Yasmine off. If there was any messenger that could get to Bizo on time, before swords invaded, and arrows rained down on their homes, it was Yas.
“You have to warn The Order. General Balthazar knows the location of the camp and-”
“Agh…I told them that you were a mistake!” Yasmine roared. A swift slap to the face had soured Aisha’s face, as the loud strike resonated through the hallway.
“I’m sorry…I just, I couldn’t go through…I couldn’t keep living this life. You yourself know the haunted life of a killer…”
“Yes, I do. But I know nothing of the actions of a genocidal traitor.” Her lips were stiff, her back instantly turned to Aisha. Yas would hide her head and begin to strut forward.
How she would manage to sneak out of the camp, and tougher still, how she was able to sneak into the palace, was something that mattered not –not if Yasmine left without Aisha saying the last of her peace.
Aisha gripped onto the lanky figure’s arm.
Yasmine smiled, but couldn’t afford to have Aisha spot it. Yas quickly turned embittered, and once more turned around to reveal a nasty grimace.
“What?!” Yasmine roared, looking to see that no bodies were lurking in the corridor, behind Aisha.
“I can’t let you leave without you knowing that I was going to find a way to warn you guys…you know that, right? I just can’t stay with you, but I will always remain Hashashin, at heart…Your teachings go far beyond simple murder…”
Yas scoffed before Aisha could continue.
Aisha was dumbfounded.
Her face rendered blank.
What did she have to say to garner Yasmine’s forgiveness in so little a time?
“Don’t worry little sister. Whether or not that warning reached us, there was no way that the order would risk staying there after having launched their most dangerous operation. I see now that it failed. I failed. But for the life of me, I can’t seem to register it as a failure…you hit me hard, Aisha.” Yasmine pointed to her own heart, tapping her chest with two fingers. “…you’re free now, and I guess that I’m free from babysitting you, and letting you steal all of the praise for my kills.” Yasmine chuckled.
This was not the ending that Yasmine had imagined. But it was an ending she couldn’t help but want most for her best friend.
“There’s one more thing I have to tell you before I leave…” Yasmine sighed deeply, shakily.
“That…? –I should look over my shoulder at all times? And that the king will always remain a target? Oh, I already know. That-”
“Gosh, woman…” Yasmine youthfully smacked Aisha’s shoulder. The pair was seemingly transported back to the good old days, up on the rocky rope bridge of a hallway, outside their rooms, and when the bantering was boundless. “I ought to kill you right now.” Yas jokingly continued. “I mean, you know all of our darn secrets, new base or not.” There was minute long silence, before the pair was interrupted by the sounds of footsteps down the hall.
Their eyes shot open. Their time was up.
“Go…” Aisha insisted, looking back to see that the sounds would not yet reveal what was sure to be a pair or more hardened guards.
“Not before I tell you this…” Yasmine leaned in to whisper into the young Persian’s ear. “I am your older sister. Bizo is you father. We will always watch over you, as we always have. And Bizo knows that you aren’t a killer. Maybe he wanted this to happen.”
“Hey! You there..!” A menacingly deep voice had uttered from behind. Aisha turned to look at the single guard.
“We, uhm…” Aisha turned to Yas, trying to bin her newly found sister under the protection of Balthazar, but Yasmine had already vanished.
“We?” The guard drew closer, scratching his head as he looked around, even going as far as turning around to be sure.
Aisha stood in the middle of the corridor, alone.
“Yes, General Balthazar and I…I must’ve lost track of time, glossing over these gorgeous paintings…” Aisha had almost cringed at those words coming out of her mouth, as she described the odd self-portraits which lined up the walls. “Anyway, he should be back any moment now…I’ll, uhm… I’ll just wait in his chambers as he requested.”
“Fine…” The mammoth guard had concluded.
There was no way that she would be in this sector of the palace if she was not as important as she claimed to be. The last thing that the lowly guard wanted was for his mundane job to turn overly complicated from a small misunderstanding.

***
  
This was not the end, but the beginning of the life that Aisha had set out from Baghdad to live, those many years ago. Balthazar made no mention to the king of the former Hashashin in their midst. And once the wedding celebrations were over, the pair would spend their life together, in Alexandria. Aisha didn’t need to live under false pretences anymore. Now, every night that General Balthazar’s wife, Aisha, looks up to the slither of moon, barely lighting up the sky, rocking her toddler, she wonders whether her sister, Yas, sees the same sky. Will their paths ever cross again?
“Hey, honey?” Balthazar walked up heavily from behind, kissing Aisha on the neck. “One of your paintings sold today.”
“Really? Which one? Who’s the buyer?” The aspiring artist had almost dropped her toddler, as her spine spritely shot up.
“I don’t know…it was all rather mysterious. A man came in claiming to represent a buyer from Sicily. The payment came with a note, though.” Balthazar, the bubbly fellow would finally display the brown parchment with nothing more than a banana-like symbol, a moon.
Aisha merely smiled.
“Hmmm, maybe they have a good reason for staying anonymous…” She smiled further, as if blushing, and looked up to the sky once more. Maybe they were looking at the same sky at the same time. Finally, Aisha would mutter under her breath, once left to her own devices:
“I’ll be seeing you soon, sister…this is not The End.”



**
PAYING IT FORWARD: you can support the author by either purchasing one or more of his stories on your favorite retail website, or by sharing his work with some of your friends. Love.
**

