
The Fairy Paintbox
or
‘Why can’t we see fairies anymore?’

Jon Jacks


Other New Adult and Children’s books by Jon Jacks

The Caught – The Rules – Chapter One – The Changes – Sleeping Ugly
The Barking Detective Agency – The Healing – The Lost Fairy Tale
A Horse for a Kingdom – Charity – The Most Beautiful Things (Now includes The Last Train)
The Dream Swallowers – Nyx; Granddaughter of the Night – Jonah and the Alligator
Glastonbury Sirens – Dr Jekyll’s Maid – The 500-Year Circus – The Desire: Class of 666
P – The Endless Game – DoriaN A – Wyrd Girl – The Wicker Slippers – Gorgesque
Heartache High (Vol I) – Heartache High: The Primer (Vol II) – Heartache High: The Wakening (Vol III)
Miss Terry Charm, Merry Kris Mouse & The Silver Egg – The Last Angel  – Eve of the Serpent
Seecrets – The Cull – Dragonsapien – The Boy in White Linen – Porcelain Princess – Freaking Freak
Died Blondes – Queen of all the Knowing World – The Truth About Fairies – Lowlife
Elm of False Dreams – God of the 4th Sun – A Guide for Young Wytches – Lady of the Wasteland
The Wendygo House – Americarnie Trash – An Incomparable Pearl – We Three Queens – Cygnet Czarinas
Memesis  – April Queen, May Fool – Sick Teen – Thrice Born – Self-Assembled Girl – Love Poison No. 13
Whatever happened to Cinderella’s Slipper? – AmeriChristmas  –  The Vitch’s Kat in Hollywoodland
Blood of Angels, Wings of Men  –  Patchwork Quest  –  The World Turns on A Card  –  Palace of Lace
The Wailing Ships  –  The Bad Samaritan  –  The 13th Month  –  The Silvered Mare  –  SpinDell
Swan Moon  –  Lesser Nefertiti  –  The Unicorndoll  –  My Shrieking Skin      

Text copyright© 2020 Jon Jacks
All rights reserved
Smashwords Edition, License Notes 
Thank you for downloading this ebook. It remains the copyrighted property of the author, and may not be reproduced, copied and distributed for commercial or non-commercial purposes. 
Thank you for your support.



Chapter 1

With their great beaks that curl down almost to the floor, and their immense, gawpingly bulbous eyes, it’s hard to believe that these bizarre creatures may be our only hope.
If you can afford their increasingly exorbitant fees, they’ll willingly come visiting your home on even a night such as this one, avoiding those poorer unfortunates who, ivory skinned and already wraith-like, lie out in deserted streets they’ve been exiled to by family and friends.
Above the roof tops, I can make out the bloody red glow and brightly flickering petals of flames soaring high into an otherwise pitch-black sky, fires that are supposedly under some form of control but are nevertheless as fearfully contagious as the plague they’re supposed to address.
Naturally, the coachman had been eager to return to the countryside as soon as possible. He’d furiously grumbled whenever our journey was delayed by yet another complaint from the servants carrying out and loading up the master’s equipment that the boxes were too heavily overloaded. When it had been kindly suggested to him that he could have a bed for the night and depart in the morning, he’d stared at every one of my friends with wide-eyed horror, as if seeking out signs of the very first boils upon their pallid skins.
I’d been placed under even greater scrutiny as he’d held the carriage door open for me, visibly wincing as I’d said my tearful goodbyes to my friends with a hug and the odd kiss to the cheek or forehead. Similarly, he’d made no effort to help me board, despite the ungainly way I had to clamber past all manner and size of box so tightly stacked inside that they filled most of the available space.
What passes for my seat is a cramped space hardly big enough for me, my own comfort given only a secondary thought by the men who’d crammed as much as they could in here.
Then again, who can blame them, or fault them for their envy? 
This is my chance to be saved.
While the chances are they and most of my friends will be dead by the time I return.


*


Chapter 2

As soon as he feels able, the coachman whips his team of horses into a faster pace.
These are the poorer streets of Cambridge, so he has no qualms about riding down anyone foolish enough to linger for too long in his way. The doctors rarely head out this far from the better areas, leaving any treatment of the dying to the far more brutal body collectors, who simply throw them onto the piled carts. With nothing more than a neckerchief tied about the nose and mouth to protect them from the malodorous air, each collector is fully aware he’ll receive equally callous treatment whenever it’s his turn to be hoisted up on top of a stack of corpses.
The cobbled surface violently throws the coach from side to side, the boxes I’m crammed amongst threatening to bury me as they creakingly slip and slide. Despite this, I’m glad most of them are in here with me rather than piled on the roof, where I can’t keep an eye on them; after all, I probably owe my life to the value my master puts on his precious equipment.
Would he have asked me to join him out in Lincolnshire if he didn’t need me to oil and polish his prisms and mirrors?
I doubt it.
He’d left days earlier for his mother’s house, taking with him his most essential contraptions and books. This follow up journey had only come about because he’d decided to make the best use of his exile to his family home and conduct some fresh experiments.
I’d overseen the packing, and yet I can only hope everything’s even more firmly secured than I’d intended, for I hadn’t counted on a coachman driving his team as if fleeing hell.
He’s not prepared to spare his horses.
I wouldn’t be surprised if he tries to keep up this frightful pace all night. 


*
 

As the sun begins to rise, we’re still on the move, but thankfully at a speed the horses can more ably cope with.
No longer hell-bent on killing his horses to save his own life, the coachman has placed his wellbeing completely in their care, for he’s now dozing placidly even while remaining seated upright on his plinth.
He may even have given the team a rest at some point during the night; I can’t be sure, as I must also have fallen asleep not long after we’d left the outskirts of the city.
Craning as far out of the carriage window as I dare, I see that we’re out in the countryside. I can only assume we’ve left Cambridge far behind us as, of course, it’s now completely out of sight.
It’s surprisingly chilly, added to which my clothes are damp. As the coachman has been sitting in the open air all night, he must be suffering even more than I am, despite the thick cloak he’s tightly cocooned himself in.
The dampness rises off the land in a thinly veiling mist, diffusing the colours, making them greyer than I suspect they must be in reality. Where the mist is already beginning to disperse, I can make out patches of much brighter tones, hues that somehow possess a curious warmth simply through their sharpness and amazing variety, qualities I rarely experienced while living in the city.
Ironically, the people we pass working in the fields or walking along the edges of the road are far less elaborately dressed than anyone I ever came across in town, where even the poorest were garbed in cast offs from richer folk who’d gone for the most expensive dyes they could afford. Here the dresses of even the women seem to have taken on the colour of the earth they toil amongst, and the cut is as simple as can be. 
They eye us suspiciously as we nosily trundle past. 
They know where we come from.
They fear we could be bringing Death along with us.


*


Chapter 3

When the coachman stops by a river to give his team of horses a chance to recover from their exertions, he acts as if I’m not there; or, rather, as if he would prefer that I wasn’t there. 
He still believes I might be a carrier of the plague, giving me neither notice that he had intended to stop nor any explanation regarding how long we would be remaining here. 
I step out and down from the carriage, taking with me my own small package of food, prepared for me by cook, reasoning that the horses will take quite a while before they’re ready to begin hauling the heavy coach once more. I might as well enjoy the meat and cheese while seated by the water, rather than stay within the uncomfortable confines of the carriage. The water will be fresher here too, of course, and I can refill the bottle I’d brought with me that I’ve now almost drained.
Even though the coachman is busying himself wiping down and hitching his horses to posts allowing them access to the long grasses growing near the water’s edge, I approach him to offer him a share of my meal. 
He shies away from me more urgently than any overly nervous horse, his horror-filled eyes latched on to the offering of food I’m carrying as if it’s the most terrifying sight he’s ever seen. 
‘I’ve brought me own food,’ he snaps. 
‘Then can you at least tell me how long we’ll be staying here?’ I ask.
‘As long as the horses need,’ he replies irritably.
Despite the coachman’s rudeness, I smile, but only because I don’t want his understandable fears to spoil my enjoyment of the beauty of our surroundings.
If I have time, once I’ve eaten, I want to attempt to capture some of these glorious colours for my paintbox.
The trickling of coruscating water over a bed of glittering pebbles; the way a blue sky mingles amongst the furry edges of a field of golden corn; the brightly iridescent magenta of a rapidly fluttering butterfly – just how do I go about adding these to my growing pallet?


*


Naturally, the limited amount of colours available in my paintbox shouldn’t be allowed to pass as an excuse for my inability to capture every scene as accurately as I would desire.
What is art’s great secret but that it regularly resorts to fooling the eye?
How often have I found that the colour used on the page to create the right effect is strangely at odds with the colour seen in the real world?
The effect I’m seeking can usually be achieved by a deft positioning of one colour against another, colours that not only blend when seen at a distance, but can also magically trick the viewer into seeing an entirely different hue. 
How is this possible? I couldn’t be at all sure; I just know that the human eye can be easily fooled into seeing things that aren’t really there.
The wealthier painters don’t have to face this problem as regularly as I do, of course.
The richer you are, the greater the variety in your paintbox – well, as in life in general, I suppose. 
Every month now, it seems, some manufacturer or other introduces a new colour, created from a mingling of all manner of substances. Many, if not most (along with the dyes required for materials), are only made possible by the slaughter of uncountable numbers of colourful insects.
But naturally, I would never, ever, contemplate killing a butterfly to obtain a desired tint!
Nor can I so easily grab the shimmering haze that graces the top of a wind-blown hay field, nor the glow of gem-like pebbles on a river bed.
Even so, with even the older, more simply hued paints being so incredibly expensive, lying well beyond my own meagre means, I have no choice but to attempt to mix my own varieties: grinding down colourful pebbles, or shredding delicate petals, binding them in concoctions of egg whites, oils or animal gums. 
At least, unlike other aspiring painters amongst the poor, I can’t complain about suffering a shortage of paper.
Despite its expense, I have a relatively good supply of paper, thanks to my master.
Being a natural philosopher, Isaac is forever making notes, scribblings of his thoughts regarding his experiments that he usually retains for future reference. Yet every now and again, he makes an attempt to bring some order to his life by sorting through his oldest meanderings, throwing them away in great batches.
I retrieve every scrap I can, even the very smallest portions; it’s not as if I need particularly large sheets anyway, seeing as how some of my favourite subjects are naturally tiny.
Insects, seen up close, are quite unlike anything else on earth. What frightful monsters they would be if they were any larger!
The pollen spheres of flowers are no less interesting, bright planets in miniature that, once disturbed, release a glorious cloud of spoors that, when suitably nurtured, will grant new life.
As for wheat, which we rely on to nourish us, each head is delicately feather like in its golden beauty, the seeds’ long strands perfect for brushing the sky and creating that peculiarly mystic haze that lies between heaven and earth.
To see these wonderful things up close, I have painstakingly constructed my own precious piece of experimental equipment; a pair of spectacles, formed from the lenses my master as discarded as inadequate to his task of observing the night skies.
Taking them out of my dress pocket, removing them from their protective case, and slipping them on now, I can look with ease at the weirdly formed insects clambering across my lap.
Naturally, were I still at home – well, I call the master’s house home, for I know of no other – anyone watching me calmly peruse the actions of these little creatures rather than cruelly scattering them away would be aghast, maybe even disgusted.
Yet they mean me no harm; they simply wish to make a meal of the crumbs I’ve dropped there while eating.
And while they eat, I can avidly watch them, studying their incredibly strange nature.
As they go about their industrious business, it strikes me that it would be a shame to thoroughly disturb them when I finally get up to leave. I can only hope we’ll be staying here a while longer, at least until these poor creatures have had their fill.
Briefly lifting my spectacles higher up onto my forehead, I glance back over my shoulder to where I’d seen the coachman tending to his horses earlier. Now the horses have been left to quietly graze, while he’s got as close as he dare to joining me in eating by the riverside. He’s positioned himself at least a few good cart lengths away from me, of course, and I suspect he’s ensured he’s not downwind of any malodorous air that might drift his way; but at least he’s not denying himself the pleasure of enjoying the soothing rippling of the river’s flow.
I can’t say, though, that he’s enjoying the food he’s eating; he pulls a sour face whenever he goes for a fresh bite, or worryingly chews at a mouthful he’s already taken. 
I have to glance back over my other shoulder to check that the coach – or, rather, its load of my master’s precious equipment – is safe from the nimble hands of any passing itinerant. The move causes my spectacles to fall back down across my eyes, momentarily confusing me as the lenses catch the light and cause everything I’m looking at to be abruptly bathed in unnaturally bright colours.
‘Colours caused by minute impurities in the glass,’ my master’s friends and important visitors insist. 
‘Nonsense!’ my master usually imperiously replies, even though he can neither explain the effect nor alleviate the problems it causes when he tries to view the movement of the night skies through his many telescopes.
There are telescopes packed amongst the coach’s load.
And once again, I find myself hoping that I’ve had them packed securely; for a boy is nonchalantly lounging amongst the cases tied to the top of the carriage.


*


Chapter 4

For a moment, I consider hailing the boy, asking what he’s about; lying without a care amongst my master’s cases of expensive equipment.
I hold my tongue.
The boy casually sits atop the carriage in plain sight, making no attempt to hide away, the only explanation being that the coachman is fully aware of his presence and has allowed him to hitch a ride with us.
I’m far from eager to raise the coachman’s ire against me by forcing him to explain why he offered this boy a lift; doubtless, some form of bribe (or maybe even threat and fear of blackmail?) has passed between them.
I could complain that the coachman is unnecessarily jeopardising the safety of Isaac’s precious materials; but the coachman holds a position allowing him to make my journey either bearable of entirely hellish.
I’ll keep quiet about it; at least for the moment.
Who knows; the boy might even be quite pleasant.
That would make my journey all the merrier.


*


When the many insects cluttering about my lap have at last had their fill of the spilt crumbs and either hurriedly whirl or languidly crawled away, I take up my small travelling bag of food and rise to my feet.
As the last of the insects wings its way out of view, I once again slip the spectacles out of the way, resting them on my upper forehead.
Glancing over towards the coach, I’m surprised to see that the boy is no longer there.
Or, more likely perhaps, having seen me rise and turn, he’s slipped out of view. The coachman has doubtlessly told him to keep out of my sight. Then again, maybe the boy, like the coachman, fears what he might catch from me.
‘I did see you, you know?’ I proclaim loudly as I near the coach.
I’m met with silence, the boy no doubt hoping I can’t be at all sure that I saw him earlier.
Then I hear a poorly restrained chuckle.
‘You saw me?’ he says, a note of incredulity in his tone.
I still can’t see him though now, of course, he’s given himself away. His voice appears to be coming from above me, meaning he must still be on top of the coach, perhaps lying down amongst the stacked cases.
‘There’s no point hiding from me anymore!’ I point out. ‘You might as well come out!’
‘Hiding?’ he repeats with an amused laugh.
‘Yes,’ I reply sternly, a touch irritated that he’s not taking this seriously, ‘and I don’t want you damaging my master’s equipment!’
‘You say you can see me?’ he asks, his voice confidently calm yet nevertheless startling me; for it’s no longer emanating from the coach roof, but seems instead to point to him being on the move, perhaps cambering down the side of the carriage directly in front of me.
‘Then why can’t you see me now?’ he asks more assuredly than ever.
And this time, it sounds as if he’s standing right in front of me.


*


Chapter 5

‘How do you do that?’ I ask, hoping I’m hiding my anxiety and confusion. ‘Is it a trick with your voice?’
‘There’s no trick on my part!’ he laughs. ‘In fact I’ve fully attempted to revel myself to you; if only because I’m intrigued as to how you pulled off the trick of seeing me!’
‘How can there be a trick in simply seeing you?’ I protest. ‘Are you really so clever at hiding that you expect to remain outside of everyone’s view for ever?’
‘Hah; your glasses,’ he says in a way implying something has just dawned on him. ‘You were wearing them earlier…’
Suddenly, my spectacles slip down off my forehead, coming to a rest on the bridge of my nose.
Instantly, I can see the boy once again; and he’s so close to me, I also see now that he’s the one who’s lowered my glasses into place.


*


‘Ah, yes,’ the boy says with a highly satisfied grin, letting go of my spectacles and leaving them sitting upon my nose, ‘so you really can see me!’
The shock on my face must be obvious.
‘Is it magic?’ I ask worriedly. ‘Is that how it’s done?’
‘It could indeed be magic,’ the boy replies sagely. ‘I’d certainly like to know how it’s done!’
I frown, confused.
‘Are we talking at crossed purposes here?’ I ask unsurely. ‘Are you implying that you normally believe yourself to be invisible to everyone else?’
‘Not everyone else; but certainly, yes, I’d expect to be invisible to you and your people.’ 
I frown again.
‘So now you’re saying – what? That there are different kinds of people? Some who can see you, others who can’t?’
He nods.
‘Yet you can see me; and it all seems to be down to these quite remarkable glasses!’
He leans closer towards me, peering intently at the lenses as if I’m the one who’s invisible. 
‘I’ve seen spectacles before,’ he adds curiously, ‘and yet they’ve never allowed anyone to see me!’
‘I thought you said some people could see you?’ I correct him.
‘Well, if you think back to what I actually said, I simply claimed I wasn’t invisible to everyone else; I quite obviously refrained from mentioning people.’
‘Who else can there be other than people?’
Well, those such as me, obviously!’
‘You’re a boy; I’m a girl – we’re people,’ I protest.
The boy grins, lightly placing a fingertip to one side of his nose in the manner of someone implying there’s a secret to be told.
‘Ah, but am I now?’ he chuckles.


*


Chapter 6

‘Who are you talking to?’
The coachman stands off to one side of me, eying me worriedly. He must have approached me as I was distracted by my conversation with the boy. 
The way he’s observing me, like maybe I’m crazed or, worse, perhaps suffering the first symptoms of the plague, seems to suggest that he thinks I’m talking to myself; that he can’t, for some reason, see the boy standing directly in front of me.
‘He can’t see me; or hear me,’ the boy explains quite jovially, as if it’s all a huge, mischievous joke to him.
‘What; but how’s that…’
The coachman appears more panicked than ever; quickly, I make a change to the flow of my words, making out that I was addressing him.
‘I mean, why would you think that I’m talking to someone? I’m simply reciting some poetry; Donne, a favourite piece of mine by John Donne. It helps calm me when I’m growing tired.’
The coachman doesn’t appear to be wholly persuaded by my excuse, even though it’s a quite reasonable explanation; many people I know seek reassurance in difficult times by repeating slices of their most favoured poetry.
‘Well, if it helps…’ the coachman replies uncertainly, in the tones of someone who thinks even this can hardly be considered sane behaviour, ‘…then so be it! But we must on our way soon as I’ve hitched up the horses! They’re rested now!’ 
‘Good, good,’ I say, simply because I’m not sure what else to say, adding in an equally flustered voice, ‘I’m eager to be off!’
Naturally, it’s a lie.
I want to stay here with this boy for as long as it takes me to get the truth out of him. 


*


The coachman may be a miserable old cove, but he puts each horse back in its harness with a swift, well-practised deftness. 
Unfortunately, it’s a skill he’s so accomplished at that it he has no difficulty at all in keeping a wary eye on me, watching out for any sign that I might be talking to myself again.
The boy is incredibly amused by the dilemma this has presented me with. He can chatter away as much as he wants, following me around unseen by the oblivious coachman. 
‘You didn’t believe me, did you; that I was perfectly invisible to your kind?’
Naturally, I possess no control at all over the conversation, leaving me in the highly frustrating positon of having to listen to any inanity the boy wishes to inflict upon me with no way of correcting or challenging him. Neither can I demand clarification of certain assumptions he makes, nor ask him even one of the innumerable questions flooding my mind.
Your kind?
What does he mean by that?
That he is of a different kind, of course!
But different in what way?
I’m sure as can be it doesn’t mean he’s French, or even that he’s come out from the East!
He means, I’m certain, that he’s different to ‘people’.
But what then, can that mean?
For he certainly appears to be like any other boy I know!
Apart, of course, from the very strange fact that he becomes invisible even to me whenever I briefly raise my spectacles. 


*


Chapter 7

It may well be, of course, that the boy is finding our ‘conversation’ every bit as exasperating as I am. After all, I can’t reply to his own questions, can I?
‘Why do you take such an interest in the insects? Most people I know angrily brush them away, like they’re a nuisance.’
‘Whatever made you develop these spectacles? Are you what your people call a natural philosopher?’
‘Do you think it’s right to use horses in this way? I mean, I grant you that it allows such swift movement across the land – but did anyone at any time ask the horses if they agreed to this?’
‘What’s it like living in your towns and cities? Don’t you feel odd, cut off from your natural surroundings in such a way?’
‘I believe you must be experiencing some high level of emotion; that might explain why you can see me – working in combination with your magical spectacles, naturally!’
It’s a little unnerving to realise he’s been watching me all this time without my knowing.
Yet it’s oddly flattering too that he’s taken such an obvious interest in me.
He’s not…well, not at all unattractive.
In fact, I’m sure that some of the more flirty maids, like Mary and Letty, would have teased him mercilessly; which was always their own peculiar way of showing they were attracted to a boy.
Mary and Letty – those poor, poor girls!
What chance do they have of surviving the contagion? As it is, they’re always tasked with the filthiest of jobs; emptying the latrines, cleaning out after the dogs, or even the horses if they’ve left their mess anywhere close about the house. 
And should anyone higher up the household’s hierarchy – which is just about everyone else – contract the plague, they’ll still be expected to run and fetch for them until it’s too late for them to avoid catching it themselves.
‘We’re ready to go!’ 
Already seated atop the coach, the coachman glares down at me, impatiently gruff, like I’ve already kept him waiting for far too long. 
Without thinking how it might look to the watching coachman, I whirl about to look towards the boy, hoping he’s already making a move to clamber aboard and travel farther on with us. Instead, he’s simply standing there, grinning, like some abashed boy waving off a sweetheart yet remaining too proud to reveal any emotions he’s feeling. 
Of course, I’m probably completely flattering myself that he’s thinking anything along these lines.
I anxiously look up towards where the coachman continues to gruffly stare down at me.
‘Wait,’ I say, once again not thinking things through before I act, ‘I need to – well, what I mean is…’
With a flick of a rein, the coachman urges his team into action, the coach lurching then slowly trundling off.
‘You can’t leave–’
I realise there’s no point in protesting. I rush for the carriage’s door, wrenching it open even as I leap up onto the running board, nearly flying headlong as a foot briefly catches in the long folds of my dress. Somehow I manage to get enough of a foothold, enough of a grip with my hand, to lever the door more fully open. 
I throw myself inside the crowded carriage with a groan of relief.
By the time I’ve gathered myself and I’m sitting up straight in my seat, allowing me to glance back out of the window, we’ve left the grinning boy far behind.


*


Chapter 8

Still intent on putting as much space between him and Cambridge, the coachman still refuses to spare his horses. 
If he cares at all for them, he cares far more for his own life.
We’re travelling hard and fast, the roughly pitted track we’re careering over sending the coach rolling and leaping, such that we could be riding an unforgivingly tumultuous sea.
My spectacles thankfully survived my leap aboard the carriage, but I remain worried that I might have damaged the items I’d packed in the small bag I’d brought on board earlier. I’d just about fallen inside the coach, the bruises now everywhere about me testament to the robustness of the boxes holding Isaac’s equipment. My own most precious items, however, are packed away in nothing but a bag of worn material.
Unclasping the bag, I’m relieved to see that there’s no obvious damage; the folder containing my scavenged sheaves of paper doesn’t appear to be buckled, and the wooden box in which my paints are stored seems to have escaped without a scratch.
What of the paints themselves, though, in particular the small glass jars I use to keep them in? Some of those could be quite easily smashed, and the mess made even worse if it’s any I’ve manged to fill with one of my prized concoctions.
Opening up the box, I sigh with relief; nothing, thankfully, has been cracked or spilled.
And yet…there’s something startling different about it.
I have a new jar of paint; but I have no idea what colour it is.


*


How can that be possible?
I mean, not just, ‘How can it be possible that one of my jars has been magically filled with a new paint?’ 
I mean – how can I not recognise its colour?
I have no name for it.
But far worse, I also can’t think of any way in which I could describe it.
I know of nothing that bears such a colour!
I mean, you can describe the colour yellow, maybe, by showing someone a buttercup.
Orange could be a glorious sunset.
Blue the sky.
But this jar is full of…well, I’ve just no idea.
I’ve never seen anything this colour before.
I’ve never seen this colour before.
Wait!
I’m still wearing my spectacles!
As I slip the spectacles up onto my forehead, the paint immediately becomes recognisable; the most glorious magenta I’ve ever seen.
The brightly iridescent magenta of a rapidly fluttering butterfly.


*


Chapter 9

A sudden, violent jolt of the carriage as we strike an especially deep rut just about sends every paint jar flying out of the box.
Fortunately, my reactions are swift enough to prevent this being a total catastrophe. I manage to bring a hand up and lay it across the jar tops, keeping everything more or less in place. And I only remove it once the worst of the jolting comes to an end.
Naturally, all this brutal jostling has caused my spectacles to slip back down across my eyes; and the jar of glorious magenta has vanished to be replaced with a paint of indescribable colour.
How can that be?
It makes no sense at all!
Granted, any impurities in the glass could cause a discoloration; it might well fool me into confusing the colour I see before me.
Yet how can that possibly explain how I come to see a colour I can’t name or describe?
A colour I never even knew existed? 
And then there’s the other question.
Just how did this remarkable colour end up in my paintbox anyway?


*


The sudden appearance of the paint must have something to do with the appearance of the boy.
Unless…the paint has always been here, and I’ve just never noticed it before.
No, no; when I’ve been painting insects, I’ve naturally been wearing my spectacles – I should have noticed the paint then. 
Besides, I can see the magenta even when I’ve removed my spectacles.
So, its appearance undoubtedly has to have something to do with the boy’s own magical appearance.
Yes, yes; magic!
That’s all it can be!
But…how would he know that I have a paintbox?
I haven’t had any opportunity to use it while we’ve been traveling.
He couldn’t have seen me using it – unless he’s been watching me for far longer than I realise!
Suddenly, I’m flying forward out of my seat.
In a panic, I instinctively place my hand across my paints once more, hoping to stop them soaring off everywhere about me. Unfortunately, I can’t hold on to my spectacles at the same time, and so these leap away from me, shattering against one of the master’s boxes.
The coach has slewed to an abrupt halt.
Hurriedly, I close my paintbox and slip it back into my bag, then worriedly lean forward to retrieve my spectacles.
They’re broken: one lens is cracked, a sliver or two missing; the other is dislodged, and won’t easily slip back into place. 
The coachman runs past my window, heading towards the back of the coach. His face is even more crunched up in anxiety than normal.
Carefully placing my broken spectacles back in their case, I jump down from the carriage and rush off after him.
He neither sees nor hears me approach. He seems quite bewildered, fearful even. In front of him there stands what could be a gravestone, but as I draw closer I see it’s merely a signpost.
He’s nervously scratching his head; are we lost?
Far from it, according to the signpost. Presumably, we’re on what some have taken to calling the Great North road, with even Stamford now thankfully – if quite surprisingly – lying miles behind us. 
Woolsthorpe Manor can’t be too far away now.
‘What’s wrong?’ I ask the coachman as he continues to stare in wild-eyed amazement – no, horror – at the rather innocent looking sign. ‘We haven’t far to go now, have we?’
‘Yes, yes; I mean no, no!’ he stammers fearfully. ‘It’s only a few miles now: but it can’t be possible that we’re already so close! It should’ve taken four days at least to get here!


*


Chapter 10

It’s not easy to calm someone down when they won’t even let you draw close, fearing your touch as much as they would that of the Devil.
Still, I encouragingly point out to him that he’s driven his horses particularly hard in his urgency to flee Cambridge; and through that, he’s happily managed to leave that poor beleaguered town far behind us.
He’s saved us the weariness and boredom of what should have been a long and arduous journey.
No matter how we’ve managed it, we’re here, and we’ve suffered no privations in achieving it. 
That should be a cause for celebration, surely?
At last, the coachman nods his head in agreement. Even so, he looks nervously into my eyes, pleading for reassurance. 
‘Then…you don’t think any, well…fairy magic was involved?’ he asks.
‘Fairy magic?’ I scoff. ‘I wouldn’t let our master or his learned friends hear you talking such nonsense!’
I sound, I hope, both reasoned and assured. 
But I’ve got to admit I feel neither entirely rational nor certain.
Is that what the boy was?
A fairy?


*


Some would say fairies are incredibly small, delicate creatures.
Some say they can appear to be just like us, entrapping us through love, in the manner of the Fairy Queen. 
Who’s to say who’s correct?
Me, at any time before today, I’d have firmly stated that both theories are wrong!
That there’s no such thing as fairies!
Has anybody evet seen one?
But now, maybe I have.
That, after all, could explain how a boy could be there one moment, then instantly vanish the next.
It could explain how I come to have a new colour in my paintbox; a colour I’ve never seen before.
It would explain how we’ve completed a four day journey in less than a full day.
Fairy magic.
Then again, I could be wrong; wouldn’t it be crazy to think this handsome boy could be a fairy?
Maybe, then, he’s an elf? 


*


Chapter 11

Elves.
Fairies.
Do they really exist out here in the countryside, far from the crowded, filthy cities?
Well, why not?
Glancing out of the coach’s window, I see sights I would never have imagined while living in town.
Of course, on the outskirts of Cambridge, the fields appear to stretch on for ever.
Yet when you’re out here amongst it all, it seems endless no matter which direction you care to look.
Here the presence of man seems far smaller; far less important. 
The track we’re on now is even rougher than the rutted monstrosity we’d travelled so far on. It meanders haphazardly, determined completely by the landscape; a hillock, a valley, a river – they all force us to uncomfortably curl our way about them, treating them with respect rather than simply carving our way through.
It’s all so unbelievably beautiful too, with its countless flashes of colour, its fresh, flowery fragrances, and its melodic birdcalls. There’s a change in it all, too, as the sun at first lazily and then hurriedly begins to set; the birds respond with a change of tone, while the scents briefly become heavier, as evening blooms release their calling cards. 
The vanishing sun changes from the yellow of the buttercup to a deliciously fruity orange. There’s even a fluttering of iridescent magenta beneath a string of now darkening clouds. 
And yet, amongst all that splendour, there isn’t a single colour that matches the one in my paintbox.


*


Chapter 12

As the sun abandons us, it begins to swallow up the last of the light. 
Everything starts to lose its colour. 
The greys become blacks. Then the blacks themselves are hurriedly ever more alike, until there are only a few tones.
Shapes merge, mingling until they’re indistinguishable from their surroundings, with only a slighter lighter sky here and there picking out the edges of a soaring tree.
The last bird call becomes the hoot of an owl, the final sign of the transformation into the nocturnal.
Still we travel on, our lanterns lit, such that we’re a dim sphere of light traveling through an otherwise completely darkened world.
The coachman must be used to travelling this track, and he must know we’re close to our goal, for if it were any other way he would have no choice but to stop. 
The soft curves of the tree tops brushing the sky are suddenly wholly devoured by a solid, angular darkness; the shapes of man’s constructions. This must be it, then, the manor.
And yet there are no lights at the windows.
No lanterns anywhere that I can see.
It’s late; but not that late, that the whole household would have retired and doused their candles and lamps.
Perhaps it isn’t the manor after all. Perhaps it’s a nearby barn.
But just as I’m telling myself this, the coachman brings the carriage to a stop.
‘We’re here,’ he growls miserably, after loudly knocking on the roof to draw my attention, ‘though obviously, no one’s seen us yet!’


*


‘They’re not expecting us,’ the coachman grumbles as he nosily clambers down from out of his seat. ‘I knew there’d be some problem with getting here so early!’
He’s carrying one of the coach’s lanterns. He must have already doused the other one to save oil, for the only light comes from the lamp he’s holding.
‘Wait here,’ he orders miserably. ‘I’ll go get the lazy beggars who’re supposed to unload the coach!’
As he walks off, the darkness rapidly curls in about me.


*


Chapter 13

When the light of the lantern appears out of the darkness once more, it strikes me that it’s oddly brighter than before. 
Then, before I waste any time attempting to work out how this can be, the sphere of light breaks into two smaller ones, then three, four, and – finally – seven, like a dandelion clock throwing out its star-like spores.
Soon I can hear what I presume is the coachman’s grumbling, but soon realise that, like the light, his moaning has seeded amongst the men he’s bringing with him.
Maybe they were ready to retire or, at the very least, they hadn’t been expecting this unwanted task of unloading a coach in the darkness. 
Whatever the reason or reasons, they’re every bit as discourteous as the coachman when they finally start bringing the boxes down off the top of the carriage, exchanging not a single word with me.
I step down out of the coach, realising that if I don’t they will probably uncomfortably and complaining work around me when it’s time to lift the boxes out.
I might as well not be here for all the attention I’m being given.
Where was I supposed to bed down for the night?
No one seems interested in telling me.
One of the men unlocks the door of the nearby building, allowing the others to begin to deposit the boxes just inside. I realise that I’ll simply have to follow the men and enter the house in the hope I come across an inhabitant, freshly woken, who might be able to help me.
The room’s empty. And, of course, completely dark, but for the flickering light of the lanterns the men have set down at various points along their route to light the way from coach to interior.
It’s a house, rather than a barn; even in the light of the single lantern left in here, I can tell from the way it dimly reflects back from some nearby walls that I’m standing within the closer confines of a room, with a low, beamed ceiling.
At last, after sufficient grumbling from the rest of the men that I’m just an obstacle in the darkness, at risk of getting in the way – hah, so at last I have been noticed, then! – someone heads off to what could possibly be a table and brings back a well-used candle in its holder. Lighting the candle with a taper set to the single lantern’s flame, he hands it to me while spooling out barely discernible directions that seem to involve me heading out of a door on the other side of the room.
Thanking him for his concern and consideration, and deciding that it’s no use trying to oversee the unloading of the coach when no one is prepared to recognise that I’m there to be listened to, I make my way through the door, only to find myself in another, even darker room. 
It’s not easy to tell in the dim and constantly fluctuating light of the candle, but this room has all the appearance of being an old style kitchen. I can’t see that it’s had much use of late; there are no scents of fresh cooking here, and I can’t make out any of the produce you would normally associate with an area where food is being regularly prepared. 
Going by the size of this kitchen, and the equally impressive entrance hall the men are unloading the boxes into, this has to be a considerable and important, if extremely aged, house. So why does it appear to be empty? And why do the servants apparently live in some other, separate building?
On the far side of the room there’s another door, and this leads to yet another incredibly dark room. Here there’s a reasonably grand fireplace, suggesting it might once have been a parlour.
Steps lead up from here towards another level. 
As I still haven’t found a bed, or anything approaching something allowing me to sleep in reasonably comfortably, I can only presume I’m expected to head up towards the upper level.
Once again, this upper room is mainly one of darkness. Yet in the dimmer edges of the candle light, I catch the sparkle of its reflected glow, reds and yellows sparking like planets far out in the night sky. 
It’s a sight I’ve become accustomed to, whenever I’ve walked on a night amongst Isaac’s vast array of equipment he’s set up throughout his rooms in Cambridge. 
I don’t want to draw too close to any of this equipment; it would be far too easy to unintentionally disturb an experiment, or even accidently bring it all crashing down. 
Instead, I head straight for the door that lies directly opposite me, a direction that will be taking be back over the tops of the lower floors.
The next room, as I’ve come to expect – and, of course, why shouldn’t it be the case, when I’d already noted on arriving here that the whole place was curiously devoid of any lights at its windows? – is in complete darkness. 
As in the previous room, I catch the odd glittering reflection of the candle’s flame, yet here, strangely, it isn’t just a glimmer of red or yellow but also greens and purples too, fledging rainbows that snap instantly out of existence as I pass amongst them. 
More of the master’s experiments, best avoided.
Another door – surely it has to be the last? – takes me into a darkened room that must lie above the hall where the men are still stacking the unloaded boxes, for I can hear them struggling and cursing as they manhandle the larger ones into place.
This room is filled with more boxes, ones brought here earlier I presume, and still remaining unpacked.
Thankfully, there’s also a bed, as well as a table and chair. There’s a fireplace too, but the grate is empty.
Then again, why should there be a welcoming fire waiting for me when we arrived here far earlier than intended or expected?
The water jug placed by the bowl on the table is also unprepared, lying empty apart from what appears to be a cobweb strewn across its upper sections. Naturally, no food has been left out for me either.
Still, I’ve brought more than enough meat, cheese and bread with me, as cook and her maids had prepared and packed enough to last me a much longer journey.
Before settling down to sleep, then, I take a bite of supper.
As I eat, miserably lamenting the lonely and sad condition I find myself in, crumbs from my meal fall across the table top.
Just as I’d seen by the riverside, there are insects aplenty to take an interest in my discarded food. 
Not that these insects appear to me as a delight to be carefully and amusedly observed.
They lack the bright colours, the excitable fluttering, of those other creatures 
They are, rather, dull wittedly slow and darkly bodied, as if they have crawled from the deepest, darkest earth.
Indeed, they strike me as being nothing but an odious irritation I wish to rid myself of.


*


Chapter 14

The happy cries of children I wake up to briefly fool me into thinking I’m still back in my room in Cambridge.
Then I remember, with a sudden surge of sadness, where I really am.
I’ve left behind all my friends.
Friends who are more than likely going to die.
I’m the lucky one; and yet I can’t really see it that way at the moment.
I really must curb this selfishness! This foolish wallowing in my supposed misery!
Suiting my sombre mood, the room is still dark, if nowhere near as solidly black as it was last night. The curtains at the windows are drawn, but one set in particular is so threadbare that it lets in a cloudy smattering of the morning’s light. 
It’s these curtains, covering the window at the very end of the building, that I decide to throw back, as it seems to me that the children I can hear are playing just outside this side of my room.
The children, a boy and a girl, are unsuccessfully attempting to fly a small, handmade kite.
Well, I say children, but they’re probably around my age; fifteen, maybe? An older girl is overseeing their play, though she’s seated upon the wider edge of a dried-up stone trough, reading a book.
Where I’ve let the sun into my room, it makes the innumerable dust motes enveloping me glitter like so many minute stars. It also shows up the appalling state of my nightdress, which is embarrassingly heavily creased after being packed away in my case. 
Before I could retire to bed last night, I’d had to make my way back through the darkened building to retrieve my travelling case from the hall, where the men had left it stacked amongst all the other boxes. They’d locked the door behind them when they’d finished unloading everything, but at least they’d had the good sense to leave a key I saw gleaming in the light from my candle. 
I glance back towards the table, the empty bowl and jug.
I need water.
Water to wash away that uncomfortably ingrained feeling travelling always leaves me with.
There must be a pump or at least a stream outside that I can use to fill my jug.
Rather than putting on fresh clothes before I’ve had time to wash, I slip my traveling cloak loosely about my long nightdress, then put on my simpler, more basic pair of shoes.
If I’m quick about my business, no one should see me. 
Taking up the large jug, I once again make my way through a building that is still surprisingly dark, such that I instantly regret leaving the candle behind. 
Every window is heavily draped with material that, far from being threadbare, is incredibly thick and dyed a pure black. Not even a chink of sunlight can find its way in here; if I hadn’t already seen the morning’s light coming in through my bedroom window, I could be forgiven for believing it must still be the middle of the night.
In the darkness, the narrow and well-worn stairs are particularly dangerous. I have to reach out with my hand, feeling my way down and taking care with every step. 
It’s not until I reach the hall that, at last, I can more clearly see where I’m going, and this only because the curtains here are as threadbare as those in my bedroom. In comparison to the darkness I’ve just had to slowly navigate my way through, the room’s gloomy light briefly appears as brightly illuminating as any found bathing a cathedral’s choir.
Of course, this dim light is as nothing compared to the blinding light of the sun itself. Stepping outside, I have to shade my eyes, blinking painfully while I wait for them to adjust to the abrupt change.
The children playing in the nearby field are little more than a haze to me, distorted forms of blocks of pastel colours merging into the vertical lines of long grasses. It doesn’t look to me as if they even bother glancing my way, not that I ever expected them to; the comings and goings of servants are far too numerous and boring to attract their attention, however briefly.
I may as well be invisible for all the notice they take of me, which I’m grateful for, as I could hardly claim to be perfectly decently attired.
I lock the door, knowing that my master’s equipment is extremely precious to him. Then I head in the direction I’d seen the coachman take the previous evening, reasoning that this must lead to some form of servants quarters and, therefore, possibly a courtyard and water pump too. 
Turning the corner, I’m immediately confronted by neither a courtyard nor a servants abode.
It’s a brand new manor house, three storeys high.
And I spent the whole of last night completely unaware of its existence.


*


Chapter 15

The pump stands by the stable, a building I take to be almost as new as the manor house.
I could feel intimidated and awkward, standing here in my nightdress and robe, but thankfully no one bothers paying me any attention.
They have tasks to fulfil, jobs to be about.
I’m just one more servant girl amongst so many other workers.
Perhaps, anyway, word has already got around that there’s a new girl, bedded down in the old manor.
For yes, looking back I see that my original surmise that I’d been lodged in a substantial house still remains correct. It’s just that it’s incredibly old, and now presumably partially abandoned since its rebirth in its newer form lying just a few cart lengths away, as if the original intention was to demolish the aged and hoarier version as soon as possible.
Perhaps Isaac has insisted that it should survive for as long as it might still serve his purpose.
A purpose that seems to involve manipulating the darkness, going by his use of heavily draped windows.


*


Isaac, I know, has been working on translating yet another alchemical text he has come by, the Secretum Secretorum.
He treats this particular tract as if it contains all answers, all routes to knowledge.
Like all such treatise, it is cryptic, and can be interpreted countless ways. Even his translation is meaningless, it seems to me.
‘By this means you shall have the glory of the whole world, and thereby all obscurity shall fly from you,’ is a particular line that I remember. There were also references to the Sun.
‘The Sun is its father, the moon its mother, the wind hath carried it in its belly, the earth is its nurse,’ and, ‘That which I have said of the operation of the Sun is accomplished and ended.’
What could my master be about?
Is he delving into things best left alone?


*


Chapter 16

As I re-enter the old manor, the children playing in the field once again ignore me.
No; to say they ignore me is only flattering myself. 
As far as they’re concerned, I’m not even here; I don’t exist.
I have all the importance to them as a single bee has on my life.
They don’t even notice that, through over-filling my jug, I’m now sloping water all down the front of my robe.
As soon as the door closes behind me, the relative darkness of the dimly lit hall folds about me. 
I lock the door, placing the key on top of one of the smaller boxes piled up by the entrance. Then I head off for my room, now being particularly careful with my jug as I don’t wish to spill any water upon the smooth stone floors, for they could well be dangerous when wet.
The darkened rooms, the possibly even darker stairs, are a nightmare to work my way through when I neither have anything to light my way nor two hands to reach out before me and give me a modicum of guidance.
Despite this, I manage to keep a firm grip on my jug of precious water and there’s no real risk of dropping it until I reach the very last room before my bedroom.
For here I almost let it fall as I gasp in surprise.
The master has captured a dazzlingly bright section of rainbow, and stored it here amongst the darkness.


*


Chapter 17

Dare I reach into the rainbow, to see what effect it has upon my hand?
I so want to see my fingers playing amongst the colours, as they can play amongst the flowing waters of a stream.
Holding the jug out before me, I reach out, letting the edges of the jug dip into the flowing stream of colours.
The dimpled pewter explodes into a glittering array of sparkling colours, taking on all the tones of the rainbow; red, orange, yellow, green, blue, purple, violet – and every other colour lying in between too!
It’s like I’m holding a jug made of the most precious gems!
Wait!
Have I interfered with Isaac’s experiment by doing this? In here, silently working away as usual?
Urgently, I pull the jug back and away from the river of colours, such that it instantly returns to being nothing but dull pewter once more. 
Where is he?
I nervously look everywhere about me, fearing that he’s somewhere in the darkness, so intently conducting some other part of his experiment that he remains oblivious of my entrance. Or, maybe, he lies beyond the wall, standing in my room, sorting out some other piece of equipment he requires form all the boxes stacked in there.
‘Master?’ I cry out worriedly.
There’s no reply.
No, he’s not here then.
His experiment, it seems, has taken on a life of its own; bursting into action despite the lack of his presence.
How does it work, then, this experiment?
How has he taken a segment of rainbow down from the heavens and incarcerated it within this room?


*


Carefully, taking ever more care than ever not to spill a drop of water, I place the jug on the floor.
Rising to my feet once more, staring in awe into the glittering flow of bright tints, I reach out with my hand; and then I stop, fearing to reach out any farther.
Yes, the jug had suffered no obvious damage; but it’s constructed of a hard, sturdy material.
Whereas my hand; well, that’s soft flesh, and hard yet breakable bone.
Couldn’t these warm colours of the sun, of flames, be formed of a burning heat? As for the colder ones, the blues and indigoes; could they suffuse my hand in an intense cold? 
Warily, I use a finger to merely touch the outer edges of the glowing band of orange.
The fingertip sparks as if aflame; but, thankfully, there’s no pain.
With a twitch of my finger, moving it into the yellow stream, I cause the tip and nail to glow as bright as a miniature sun.
Reassured that there’s no apparent danger, I excitedly dip my hand fully into the fluid colours; and beam in delight as my hand abruptly appears to be formed from nothing but the bright tones of the rainbow. 


*


As I twirl my fingers in the streaming colours, they change to match their surroundings, chameleon like.
And beyond the point where my hand spins, naturally there is now mostly darkness. 
I can control that darkness, bringing back shafts of colour to some areas, while denying it to others.
There’s no sensation in my hand, not even a tingling of the skin; and yet my mind is a whirl, for I find myself wishing I could somehow transfer these colours straight into my paint box.
How has Isaac realised this remarkable achievement?
I’ve been so enamoured by the bright colours playing in the darkened air, so convinced that it could only be a seized section of rainbow, that I haven’t bothered seeking out any possible source. 
And yet there it is, right in front of me; only it is so astonishingly clear, it almost vanishes into the darkness.
A prism.
It is the impurities resident in the prism that is bringing this rainbow into being.
Isaac has set the prism up to catch the light coming from a single, sharp beam of sunlight, directed upon it by a slight parting of the dark curtains, and…yes, lying behind the drapes, a blackened board completely blocking the widow, bar a small hole drilled into its centre.
But…why has Isaac sought out this effect? 
He and I have spent most of our time attempting to avoid it!
How often has he asked me to endlessly polish a prism, a lens or a mirror, in the hope of completely eradicating the unwanted and annoying colourisation of the objects he wishes to observe?
Is this, then, an untouched prism he’s used? One in which the crystal’s impurities are given full play to create this wondrous rainbow from nothing but a shaft of clearest sunlight?
Peering closely at the prism, I see that no, it’s just the opposite; I recognise this prism has been one of my own creations, polished as smooth as can be.
Rather than giving us this splendid array of colours, it should ensure the light comes out of its other side as pure and as untouched as can be.
At the very least, I would have expected my hard work to have made sure that any colourisation was at a minimum. Instead, the colours thrown out into the darkness by the prism are brighter and more glorious than ever.
And yet…there’s a colour missing, isn’t there?


*


Chapter 18

Where’s the colour of the nameless paint the boy (why hadn’t I asked his name?) has somehow included amongst my paints?
Wait, though; there is a magenta here – the magenta the paint became once I’d taken off my spectacles.
Maybe, then, if I observed this rainbow through my spectacles, the secret colour might appear.
Maybe, too, if I had watched the sun go down last night, I might have spotted the colour wavering amongst those strewn everywhere across the evening sky.
Maybe.
My spectacles shouldn’t work over long distances, of course. Everything should be little more than a heavily distorted blur. 
But…
There’s no reason why they shouldn’t work here, now Isaac has miraculously managed to bring a section of rainbow down to earth.


*


I excitedly dash into my room.
My spectacles are still in their case, which itself lies deep in one of the pockets of the dress I’ve hung from the top of one of the stacked boxes.
That’s easy to find; what might take a little more time to seek out is the lens I can use to replace the broken one – it’s not ideal, admittedly, as it was a first attempt at creating the lenses I needed, and is flawed a little towards the bottom.
But it will do.
Fortunately, I have so few belongings to my name, I not only kept the lens, but packed it away somewhere amongst my personal baggage.
I’ve got to find it, no matter how long it takes.


*


Once I’ve found the ‘new’ lens, it’s only a matter of loosening then tightening the frame’s restraining screws to fit it in place of the broken glass.
Similarly, I firmly snap the dislodged lens back into its proper position.
There; as good as new, or just about.
The flaw in the replaced lens is hardly noticeable. But…is it a flaw that might stop me seeing the colour I’m hoping to find in the rainbow segment?
I can only hope not.
I move over to the window to give them a final check, using the light coming in here to peer more closely at where the lens abuts the frames, making sure I’ve slotted everything together as neatly as it should be, fearing any slight mistake might in some way negate their abilities.
Once I’m satisfied that everything has come seamlessly together, I’m about to slip them on, to make sure they fit snuggly and at the right angle, when I’m suddenly distracted by a particularly loud cry from one of the children playing in the field outside.
Looking out through the window, I’m surprised to see that it’s not one of the younger children after all, but the young lady, who’s worriedly chasing after her hat as it’s carried away on an unexpectedly strong breeze. Her sister and brother are trying to help her catch the wayward hat, but every time one of them draws close to it, as it lies upon the floor, it’s curiously whipped up yet again by an almost mischievous gust.
It seems odd to me, the way the hat’s behaving; like it has a life of its own, its behaviour so obviously quite unnatural when it’s viewed from on high rather than when you’re caught up in attempting to retrieve it.
I’m not sure why – perhaps, as I’d intended earlier, to simply test how they fit against my face – but I slip on my spectacles.
There’s no mischievous wind blowing the hat. 
There’s just a mischievous boy, snatching it from out of the children’s grasp every time they come close to retrieving it.
He laughs but, of course, the children can’t hear him.
It’s the boy I’d met travelling here.
The elf boy.


*


Chapter 19

I want to cry out, to let the boy know I’m here. 
But the children would hear too. They’d look, wondering why I was bothering them, intruding in their lives.
I want to rush down, to let him know I’m here; I don’t want to risk losing sight of him once more!
But I still need to wash, and dress!
I can’t let him see me like this; can’t let the children see me either, for they’d surely notice me this time as I rushed past them, gleefully shouting out to the empty air like I’m crazed.
Is that it?
Am I crazed?
After all, I can see a boy no one else can.
I can talk to him, too.
I’ve heard the mercury I’ve used to make the master’s mirrors can send you mad. And who’s to say what affect all the other oils and solutions involved have had upon me?
Still, watching the children and the young lady running around after that hat, it actually makes far more sense that it’s all under the control of a playful boy rather than a capriciously uncaring wind.
He still refuses to return the poor girl’s hat, even though he’s at last brought the chase to a halt; he’s tossed the hat up into the branches of a lonely apple tree, such that it lies just out of reach of the children.
No matter how hard they strive to bring the hat down by jumping, stretching, and reaching up higher with broken branches, they appear to have no hope of ever retrieving it.
The boy stands to one side, quite obviously amused by their fruitless attempts, as he’s grinning from ear to ear.
Then he looks my way, still grinning.
He waves.
He’s been aware that I’ve been watching him all along.


*


Chapter 20

Somehow, the boy must have followed me here.
Bored of his jesting, he uses nothing but a nonchalant wave of a hand to lift the hat up off its branch – as if it’s caught up at last in a friendly wind – and bring it falling back down to the ground.
The older girl happily yet indecorously just about leaps upon her hat, not wishing to let it get away from her again!
I, too, have to work quickly.
Otherwise, he’ll wonder why I’m taking so long.
Wonder if I’ve maybe failed to see him.
Wonder if I’m no longer interested in seeing him!
To wash, I naturally put my spectacles aside, placing them back in their case as I don’t wish to run the risk of damaging them once again. Yet I regret it almost as soon as I begin pouring the water from the jug into the bowl. For as the water curls out and away from the lip of the jug’s spout, tumbling in perfectly transparent serpentine coils, it takes in the light and throws it out as miniature rainbows.
I’d never noticed it doing this before.
Never noticed the brightly sharp colours it creates from the white light.
But what of the hidden colour, the colour the boy has magically introduced into my paintbox?
Would I have seen it, if I’d still been wearing my spectacles?


*


The water in the jug has all but poured away.
No matter.
I can look for the hidden colour later; when I’ve replenished the jug.
The hidden colour won’t go away, will it? It will always be there.
Unlike the boy, who might easily vanish from my life once more.


*


For the moment, the spectacles must remain in the safety of their case.
The floorboards running throughout this upper level of the house are ancient, worn and deceptively uneven. Naturally, to lessen the odds that I might trip as I dash through the darkened rooms, I need both hands to lift the hem of my dress clear of my feet.
It’s a fresh dress, of course, one I had unpacked last night, and hung up so the creases might fall away.
As I pass the master’s segment of captured rainbow, I briefly regret once more that I’m not wearing the spectacles.
I still have to seek out the hidden colour amongst the bright tones streaming through the dark air.
But I can search for it later. Perhaps when I’m also looking for it amongst the sparkling tints formed in the curls of falling water.
And when I’ve found it, should I tell my master?
Naturally, I couldn’t possibly describe it to him.
How do you describe a colour that no one else has ever seen?
A colour that even Isaac, despite his incredible intelligence and ingenuity, is almost certainly completely unaware of.
But I can show him it!
I can let him wear my spectacles.


*


Chapter 21

Now that my spectacles are more precious to me than ever, I still refuse to put them on even as I run out of the door.
It means, of course, that I can’t see where the boy (just why, why, why didn’t I ask him his name!) is standing now, but it also means I’m less likely to break a lens once more if I trip and fall.
This time the children can’t help but notice me, as I appear to be urgently running towards them, as if I have important news or a message to deliver. 
‘What is it? What’s wrong?’ the young lady asks worriedly as she still anxiously clings on to her hat.
‘Oh, er, nothing, Miss,’ I say ashamedly, bringing my run to a halt to grant her an embarrassed curtsy.
‘Shouldn’t you be working; haven’t you anything to be getting on with?’ the boy demands imperiously.
‘My work is finished for the moment, Sir,’ I say as politely as I’m able.
How the elf boy must be enjoying my discomfort; he knows I’m being put through all this questioning purely because the others are incapable of seeing him.
‘I saw you’d briefly lost your hat, Miss,’ I say, thinking up an excuse for my behaviour as quickly as I can, ‘and I was wondering if it required mending?’
The lady glances down at her hat, twirls it in her hand, inspecting it for any damage.
‘No, no; it’s fine, thank you,’ she says at last, causing me to inwardly sigh with relief; I wouldn’t have liked to be given the task of repairing such an expensive and complexly structured hat.
I smile graciously at each and every one of them as I curtsy once more.
The younger girl is the only one to return my smile; in fact, she’s beaming in delight, observing me with the most curious attention, as if I’m the oddest spectacle she’s ever cast her eyes upon. She seems particularly amused by my dress for some strange reason; there’s nothing in the least unusual about it, and yet she can hardly keep her eyes off it, as if it’s the most wondrous dress she’s ever seen!
I make as if to turn back, but as I do so, I reach into my dress for the spectacle case. Deftly slipping the spectacles out, I quickly hold them across my nose, looking everywhere about me as I search out the boy.
He’s not here; no, there he is!
Standing far enough away from the children that there’d been no need at all for me to put myself through so much embarrassment.
And, as I’d suspected, he’s highly amused by the predicament I’d unwittingly placed myself in.
Stepping off to one side, I head over to him, ignoring the curious stares of the children, who’d naturally expected me to demurely return to the manor house.
I don’t care what they think.
Well, I do care that they might think I’m a touch crazed; so I refrain from talking to the boy as I draw near, as I wouldn’t want them to think I hold one-sided conversations with nothing but thin air.
‘Pleased to see you,’ the elf boy declares jovially, giving me an overly theatrical bow in welcome.
‘I can’t talk,’ I hiss to him through gritted teeth, while keeping my head lowered, ‘until we’re well away from the others!’


*


‘Your paints?’ the elf boy says disappointedly, looking me over as if he’s expecting me at any moment to magically produce my paintbox from somewhere within my billowing dress. ‘l’d hoped you’d bring your paints along!’
‘I can’t see how you could be expecting that when I’d no idea you were here until only a moment ago!’ I point out.
‘I thought, maybe, you’d be seeking out some subject ideally suited to your new colour!’
‘So, it was you who’d left that new paint for me?’ I say far more reproachfully than I’d intended. ‘How long have you been watching me for?’
‘Watching you?’ he repeats curiously, as if this is a statement of the utmost nonsense. ‘Why, as you well know, the first time we met was back on the road leading out here.’
Is there any point in me pointing out that I can’t be sure of that at all, as I’ve never been capable of seeing him until recently?
Probably not.
‘So how is it, then, that you know of my paints?’ I say instead, regretting immediately that I once again sound so unintentionally ungrateful. ‘They were packed away for most of the journey; in fact, I only brought them out once you left.’ 
‘You looked like a painter to me,’ he coolly replies. ‘So, naturally, I presumed you must also have some paints.’
‘No one looks like a painter!’ I scoff. ‘Well, not unless they’re walking around in some old apron covered in spilt paint!’
‘Well, there you are then,’ he assuredly replies, as if that explains everything.
‘What do you mean, “Well there you are then”?’ 
I’m so shocked by his assurance that I draw to a halt.
‘I’m not wearing an apron!’ I add sternly.
‘No,’ he says, looking me over as one might observe a child who has come in from the yard as filthy as the floor, ‘but your dress is covered in paint!’
‘It is not!’ I insist vehemently as I pick up our walking pace once more. ‘The maids in the laundry house had it specially cleaned for me!’
No matter how hard they work to keep things clean, even the laundry maids can’t avoid the fearful pestilence stalking Cambridge.
Here I am, walking out in the glorious countryside; and they remain within a town where Death walks.
Why couldn’t they come out here with me to Isaac’s manor?
Why have I thankfully been spared what awaits them?
‘Surely,’ the boy says, suddenly grabbing one of the lower sections of my dress and quite indecorously raising it higher, ‘you can now see the paint you’ve spilled here?’
I stare in amazement at the section of dress he’s lifted up closer to my face.
There is a daub of spilled paint there!
And more astonishingly still, it’s paint of the most indescribable colour; the colour I found in my paintbox only yesterday. 


*


Chapter 22

‘But how can I possibly have spilled it?’ I protest in astonishment. ‘I haven’t even used that paint yet!’
The boy laughs at my obviously irate bemusement.
‘You’ve probably used it on numerous occasions,’ he assures me. ‘You just weren’t aware that you were using it.’
I raise my spectacles; yes, the paint smudge now appears to be a streak of magenta.
But I’m sure it wasn’t there before – not even as a magenta stain.
Perhaps I simply hadn’t wanted or expected to see it. I’d hardly gone out of my way actually seeking out paint dribbles upon my dress, had I?
‘Even so,’ I peevishly protest once more, ‘it’s hardly a painter’s apron!’
He looks me over, a huge, highly-amused grin upon his face.
‘Ah, but you can’t see all the carelessly spilled paint that I can!’
‘There’s more?’
I worriedly glance down at my dress, fearing he’s mocking me or, worse, that my pretty dress will suddenly, magically, be splattered in paint of every colour imaginable and unimaginable.
‘There’s nothing else there!’ I sigh in relief, sternly adding in response to his mocking tone, ‘Besides, I can hardly be accused of carelessness for spilling invisible paint, can I?’
The boy shrugs. 
‘Perhaps, for the moment,’ he says sadly, ‘you’re not quite ready to see everything that could be revealed to you!’


*


‘Could be revealed to me?’ I repeat anxiously. ‘You’re saying some colours might always remain entirely invisible to me, you mean?’
He nods, his expression a touch gloomy, a little resigned. 
‘It’s possible,’ he admits. 
‘Possible? That’s a word that can be taken either way!’ I petulantly inform him, mortified that I might never be able to see every colour. 
To add to this, I must appear a frightful mess to anyone who is capable of seeing the colours.
‘Why hasn’t the cleaning removed the paints?’ I ask. 
‘They’ve been partially removed,’ he concedes. ‘But as for the tints neither the cleaners nor you could see; well, why would they waste their time attempting to come up with ways to remove something they’re incapable of seeing?’
‘Why is just one of these colours now visible to me, but not the others?’ I distraughtly demand. ‘How do I get to see colours that I otherwise can’t possibly even imagine?’
He smiles, like he’s been waiting for this moment. His reply is gleeful, mischievous; and yet also plainly serious.
‘Why, naturally, you have to abandon all reason.’


*


‘But that is madness – surely?’ I reply uncertainly.
How can a person be expected to abandon their reason, as the boy suggests? 
Without reason, how can we hope to make any sense of the world?
‘Well, you see me,’ he says, ‘and I don’t think you’re mad, do you?’
‘But…I couldn’t see you before,’ I admit worriedly, adding bluntly in my nervousness, ‘Who – I mean, what are you? And yes – I do want to know who you are too!’
‘Perhaps saying what I am is a bit like trying to describe a colour another cannot see,’ he replies cryptically. ‘But there are those amongst your kind who might think of me as an elf.’
‘An elf?’ I repeat doubtfully. ‘Not a fairy, then?’
He gives me a wryly amused glance.
‘Are you telling me you believe all these ridiculous tales about fairy folk abducting your kind?’ 
‘Well, no, no; of course not!’ I hurriedly reply, hoping to hide the shame I feel. 
Yes, I’ve always dismissed such tales as nonsense, the beliefs of naive country folk.
And yet, here I am; talking to an elf!
What should I believe?
He nods, as if strangely satisfied by my answer.
‘I find such tales hard to believe myself,’ he says sagely. ‘I mean; fairies are so incredibly tiny, aren’t they?’


*


Chapter 23

‘Tiny?’
Then – fairies do exist?
That is what he’s saying, isn’t it?
‘But can’t they use magic?’
As soon as I say it, I regret blurting it out.
Doesn’t it show that a part of me had always believed those tales after all?
He grins, knowing he’s caught me out.
‘I mean, for them to remain invisible to us!’ I hurriedly add.
‘Oh, they don’t require any magic for that,’ he says dismissively. ‘Your kind thankfully remain wilfully blind to the presence of all the fairy folk.’
‘We can’t ignore something just because we wish to,’ I snort derisively. ‘Otherwise, how would a branch trip me up, say, or a wind take away part of a house?’
‘So, have you ever looked for them; fairies, I mean?’
‘Of course not!’ I firmly reply. ‘I never, ever thought they really existed!’
‘Well, there you are then; how can you expect to see something you’ve told yourself can’t possible exist?’
‘I don’t have to believe something exists simply to see it! Then, when I’ve seen it, I know for sure it exists!’
‘Do you now?’ he says condescendingly. ‘Maybe you can explain, then, how you’ve regularly seen fairies, and yet – as you’ve just admitted – you continued to believe they couldn’t possibly exist.’
‘I haven’t seen any at all! As you yourself have just admitted, only a moment ago, somethings haven’t been revealed to me!’
‘But who’s responsible for this revelation, do you think?’
He stops, turning to stare back at me intently and meaningfully. 
‘Me?’ I say unsurely. ‘I have to reveal these things to myself?’
His only answer is a grin.
‘As for your other question…’ he says, suddenly frowning seriously.
‘Yes?’ I reply expectantly, wondering which question he means, hoping that he grants me some further clues as to how I might begin to see the colours still veiled to me.
‘Aelfric,’ he says.
‘Ale frick?’
I repeat it, trying to make some sense of it, attempting to work out what it might mean.
‘My name,’ he says. ‘It’s Aelfric.’ 


*


‘Who are you talking to?’
The young girl who’s suddenly stepped out from the bushes running alongside us eyes me suspiciously.
It’s Isaac’s sister; the youngest one, who I’d seen earlier playing with her brother in the field just outside my room.
Hannah, I think she’s called – after her mother.
She must have followed me out here. How long has she been listening to me talking to the boy?
She must think I’m a touch crazed.
She can’t see the boy; so she can only assume I’m talking to myself.
And about seeing fairies too!
I hope she doesn’t report this back to my master!
I’ll probably be dismissed and given the most terribly damning references too!
‘Oh, er, I was practising my speech, Miss,’ I insist as innocently as I’m able. ‘So that I’m clear when I’m speaking.’
She glowers at me suspiciously, as if she’s well aware that I’m lying, yet can’t be sure what I’m trying to hide.
‘You were talking about fairies; I heard that clearly!’ she says.
‘If I’m practising speaking, it doesn’t matter which word–’ 
‘And I heard a boy talking to you…’
She anxiously looks everywhere about her, but fortunately can’t see Aelfric, of course.
‘You heard a boy?’ I say with genuine surprise. 
Aelfric appears to be every bit as surprised as I am. Unlike me, however, he’s both amused and extremely interested that the girl has somehow managed to hear him speak. 
She’s very pretty – no beautiful.
Long dark hair, framing a delicately formed, almost porcelain face. Her eyes sparkle, with a violet tint, as if they’re amethysts.
Whereas here I am, wearing the most atrociously ugly glasses!
‘Definitely!’ the girl assuredly replies, her head still in a whirl as she tries to seek him out, no doubt believing he’s mischievously hiding from her.
On glancing down towards a nearby, extremely leafy brush, she brings her searching to an abrupt halt, suddenly gawping in surprise, gasping in joy. 
‘Oh my, my!’ she elatedly whispers. ‘Aren’t they beautiful? I’d always thought they would have to be the most gorgeous things I’d ever see – fairies, I mean!’


*


Chapter 24

‘Fairies?’
I excitedly follow Hannah’s blissful gaze; only to sigh in disappoint. 
Is she…mad?
All she’s so ecstatically staring at is nothing but a bunch of colourful insects whirling everywhere about the bush.
Sure, they’re clever little things, these insects; some look like leaves, others like twigs. They’re coloured, too, to look like bark, or other leaves.
But how could she mistake any one of them for a fairy? Has she really never, ever seen insects before?
I’m wondering how I can politely point out her mistake when Aelfric addresses her.
‘You can see them?’ he asks, his tone that of someone impressed be an achievement.
‘Why yes, of course; why shouldn’t–’ the girl begins to reply nonchalantly, turning around to finish her answer. ‘Ah, there you are; you were hiding from me then!’
She grins triumphantly.
She can see Aelfric!


*


Chapter 25

Can Hannah suddenly see Aelfric because he’s decided to reveal himself to her?
Or is it because he’s now talking directly to her?
Or, maybe, she’s ‘revealed these things to herself’?
She briefly turns away from Aelfric to look my way, a cheeky smirk upon her face.
‘No wonder you were trying to keep him secret from me, Missy!’ she says coquettishly. ‘It is Missy, isn’t it? Isaac says you mix the most amazing concoctions!’
I nod politely.
‘Yes, Miss.’ 
‘And you’re Aelfric, I hear,’ she says confidently, turning back towards him. 
‘And you’re Hannah,’ he replies, reflecting her own warmly interested smile. 
‘Ah, you knew; Missy told you, I presume?’
His reply is little more than a slight movement of his head that could be taken for a nod.
I’m envious of Hannah; she’s assuredly determined Aelfric’s name and received his obvious interest within moments of meeting him.
And she can see the fairies; where I only see a mass of ugly insects!


*


Hannah turns away from us, her face illuminated with pure joy as she once again takes in the antics of the fairies fluttering about the leafy bush.
Why can she see them, while I see nothing but insects?
Obviously, the fairies are hiding from me, the same way I’ve seen insects pretending to be leaves and what have you.
What did Aelfric say? I have to abandon reason?
If I cling on to reason, I won’t see them?
But how do you just simply shrug off reason? And how can it be preventing me from seeing fairies anyway?
‘Can you…can you describe their colours to me,’ I hopefully ask Hannah.
‘Well, naturally, yes!’ she replies with a curious chuckle, her confidence completely taking me by surprise.
‘How? What are they?’ I ask eagerly.
‘Why, they’re all over your dress, of course,’ she grins, briefly turning to point out the spills of paint Aelfric had referred to earlier.
Aelfric barely manages to restrain himself from laughing at my embarrassment. 
‘When I saw you in that wonderful dress,’ Hannah continues, ‘I knew you just had to be the most incredible painter; to have already captured such gorgeous colours!’ 
I feel awkward having to admit that I can’t see the fairies, and yet I don’t want to throw away this chance to see them either.
‘I…I can’t see the colours,’ I confess. ‘Well, not most of them anyway.’
‘You can’t see them?’ Hannah is obviously shocked. ‘But why not? They’re as plain as can be; well, not in terms of their colour, of course – but you know what I mean.’
‘Could you describe – I know that’s not easy, but maybe if you…’
A bee urgently buzzes by me, heading towards a white petalled flower with pollen-laden yellow stamens at its centre. 
‘…if you had to describe white and yellow to that bee, you could say it’s like this part and this part of this flower, couldn’t you?’
Before Hannah can answer, Aelfric shakes his head.
‘To a bee, that flower is more what you’d call a blue.’
‘How can that be possible?’ I protest. ‘Surely it’s a white flower, and that’s it, isn’t it?
Even as I blurt this out, it dawns on me that I’m wrong. Wasn’t that new, wondrous paint I’d found in my paintbox proof that I was speaking nothing but nonsense?
‘Just as your ears pick up certain shocks in the air and interpret them as sounds, your eyes try to make sense of the world about you, but in a different way to a bee, who needs to know when pollen is ready for collecting.’
‘But I can show you the colours anyway,’ Hannah says brightly. ‘Isaac’s captured them all, and put them in the room next to yours!’
‘The rainbow?’ I gasp excitedly, realising that Hannah can only mean that the new colours appear amongst its vibrant bands. ‘You can see all the fairy colours there?’
‘Yes, of course; though poor Isaac doesn’t seem to realise it yet,’ she giggles. ‘I’ve seen his notes, and he doesn’t refer to them at all!’
‘He can’t see them,’ I point out. ‘And neither can I; but now I know they’re there, maybe I can when I look at it through my spectacles!’


*


Chapter 26

‘Did I hear you correctly?’ Aelfric asks anxiously. ‘Did you say something about a rainbow? A captured rainbow too, maybe?’
‘Yes, yes; it’s definitely a rainbow!’ Hannah replies gleefully, even though the main focus of her attention is watching the fairies once more. ‘I’ve asked him to please return it, but he just laughs; he says I’m just being childish!’
‘Is it wrong?’ I ask Aelfric. ‘Are you worried?’
‘No. no; at least, not in the way I presume you’re thinking,’ he chuckles light-heartedly. ‘A rainbow can’t be stolen so easily, simply because there are so, so many of them; we each see our own rainbow, and it’s changing all the time as the raindrops fall.’
‘Yet you looked worried…’
‘Observing a rainbow, learning from it; all that’s fine, as long as you don’t lose any of its sense of magic.’
He urgently glances everywhere about himself, as I did only a moment ago when I was looking for something to explain what I meant about colours.
He points out a worm slowly traveling along the ground, concertina-like in the way it first stretches out then retracts, pulling its rear end in.
‘Reason can expand your knowledge, but it’s often at the expense of leaving behind those things you now call unreasonable, irrational. Then, for fear of appearing foolish, you close your eyes to things you had originally willingly accepted.’
He draws my attention away from the slowly moving worm, bringing me back to gawping foolishly at the presumably industrious fairies that I see only as whirling insects.
‘The fairies, they’re thankful for that; for it’s your need to see reason in everything that they use to veil themselves from your view.’ 


*


Isaac’s rainbow.
If I can see the hidden colours in that, know what I’m looking for; well, then I can come back here, and see these fairies for myself.
Hannah is more enamoured by the presence of the fairies than ever, lifting up an empty hand as if she’s crazed, as if a fairy has perhaps alighted there to better observe this inquisitive girl, each returning the other’s curious observations.
Aelfric looks on, highly amused; he only has eyes now, it seems to me, for Hannah.
I don’t want to leave them together like this. But I have no choice.
‘I must get back,’ I say, trying to think of a reasonable excuse. ‘Isaac hasn’t set me any tasks yet, as I’d arrived early; but he may have left a note for me, and be wondering why I haven’t responded.’
‘If you’re sure that’s what you want…’ Aelfric disappointingly replies; I’d hoped he might have put up at least a little more resistance to my departure.
Hannah, I don’t think, has even heard me.
As I turn away, I take off my spectacles, having no need for them now I’m leaving Aelfric behind me.
I slip them into their case, slip the box back into my dress pocket; and feel something that wasn’t there only a moment ago when I’d reached in for the case.
It’s small, heavy, and smooth, like glass, a small jar.
When I more fully withdraw it, I see I’m holding a jar of magenta paint.


*


Chapter 27

I gratefully glance back towards where I’d left Aelfric and Hannah; but of course, I can no longer see him.
Poor Hannah, of course, appears delirious, lolling around in the glass, giggling happily.
I turn about again, as I don’t want him to catch me wistfully looking back in this way; as I can’t see him, as I looked back without remembering to put my spectacles back on, he might have already seen me.
I take out and put my spectacles on anyway, as I want to see the real colour of this new jar of paint.
I gasp blissfully.
Naturally, it’s a colour that’s quite glorious in its bright, luminous intensity.
A colour, too, that now appears to me as a spill of paint upon my dress.
In every other way, well – it’s a colour that’s quite, quite indescribable.


*


I excitedly run back towards the old manor house.
I’ve removed my spectacles once more, as I don’t wish to trip and break them. Even when I enter the building, I don’t trust my feet upon the slippery stone floor of the lower level, the uneven floorboards of the upper one.
The rooms are still dark, of course, for the curtains are everywhere still closed, solidly blocking out any light.
But in the room next to mine – it’s darker than ever.
The rainbow has vanished.


*


Chapter 28

Waiting for my eyes to adjust to the almost complete absence of light – for an incredibly dim light comes in from the room behind me, through the door I’ve left open – I catch the glimmer of a pewter plate I’ve never noticed before.
Upon the plate there are scraps of leftover food; has Isaac been working here, or has it always been here, completely unnoticed by me?
Making my way towards the window where Isaac had cleverly enticed the beam of light to enter, I pull the dark curtain back a little; and instantly the sun’s ray coming in via the hole in the boarding stretches out across the room.
The sun has moved, of course; its beam no longer flows through the opening in the curtains, nor does it directly strike the prism carefully set in place by Isaac. 
I could move the prism; but no, I can’t go around moving the master’s painstakingly arranged equipment. 
I could use a mirror, redirecting the beam so it shines upon the prism once more; but again, this would be interfering with Isaac’s experiment.
I’ve rushed back here, leaving Aelfric and Hannah together, for no reason.


*


The appearance of the rainbow is determined by the motions of the sun.
It will appear tomorrow, at the same time as it did today.
But I have no time to waste.
I need to understand how these colours work.
I can recall the way they were set out within the rainbow; red, yellow, green, blue, then various purples. The colours merged and blended to form other colours; orange, the green of duck eggs, turquoise.
Using my own paints, mixing them carefully, I can begin to construct my own rainbow upon a page; no, better than that, I can bring the purples around to meet the red, creating a circular chart.
And within that chart, I will then know every colour there is!
For what could exist outside such a perfectly constructed circle of tones?


*


Chapter 29

I’m used to mixing concoctions.
With the template of Isaac’s rainbow to work from, I can easily begin to work out which colours I need to mix to create the tones lying in between.
Working in this way, it’s far easier to create my paint chart than I could have possible imagined.
I just have to add slightly increased parts of the next colour in the rainbow.
And yet…
I do have a problem.
Aelfric’s colours.
I can’t see where these are supposed to go at all.


*


Chapter 30

I find that resolving my problem of Aelfric’s colours is far easier than I’d realised.
For when I remove my spectacles, of course, I see them as slightly differing shades of magenta.
And these tints are quite effortlessly included within my circle of many colours.
It’s only when I wear my spectacles once more that the colours appear absurdly incompatible, glaring out as oddities that spoil the otherwise well-ordered beauty and simplicity of my creation.
I could place them outside of my circle – but then, how displeasing would that be?
I couldn’t be sure in the slightest that I had manged to record every colour there is, as I’d hoped.
It would defy the very point of creating my chart!
‘Hello Missy; I’m sorry you had to leave us to get back to your work.’
I’ve been so engrossed in creating my Chart of All Colours that I hadn’t heard Hannah enter my room.
Or perhaps it’s just that she’s as quiet as the fairies themselves!
‘Oh, you’re painting!’ she declares excitedly. ‘Wouldn’t it be wonderful if you could paint the fairies?’
‘Yes, it would; and that’s what I’m hoping to do,’ I admit.
She looks at my chart, her elation turning into a definite frown.
‘But the colours; you still only have two of the colours you need,’ she points out innocently.
I sigh, if only to hide my exasperation with her; she seems to think that we should all see the fairies as easily as she does.
‘If you don’t mind me saying,’ she says, again innocently unaware of how insulting such a comment can be, ‘I can’t understand why you think Isaac’s rainbow can be rendered as a circle.’
I frown, bewildered by both her statement and her easy disapproval of my painstaking work.
‘Can’t you see,’ I say, withholding my irritation, ‘how useful such a chart could be for painters?’
‘But the colours here,’ she says, pointing to where my purples become reds once more, ‘aren’t right. Think about it Missy – in Isaac’s rainbow, the reds are on the outside of a giant circle, leading to blues on the inside. Why would we begin to see hints of red again? They’re at the complete opposite ends of any paint chart!’
I stare at the wide range of purples on my chart; and I realise, she’s right, isn’t she?
Just as my range of paints can’t cope with rendering this section correctly, we’re not really built to see the colours here as they really are. 
Like my chart, our mind simply curls back in upon itself to try and make sense of it all.
The worm of reason.
Excitedly, I rise from my seat, pick up my spectacles, and rush into the adjoining room
‘Missy, Missy! Are you all right?’ Hannah wails worriedly as she rushes in after me.
‘Yes, yes; better than ever!’ I declare happily, slipping on my spectacles as I take Isaac’s prism from its plinth.
Kneeling by the window, I pull back the curtain, letting the sharp beam of sunlight stream across the darkened room.
I lift Isaac’s prism up into the beam, twisting it slightly until it creates the effect I want: Isaac’s rainbow, spreading out, bringing a blaze of colour to the darkened room.
And as I look at the rainbow, I weep with joy.
I don’t see a large purple band anymore. 
I see colours far far more beautiful than I could ever imagine.


*


Chapter 31

‘I have to go; to see the fairies!’ I declare excitedly to Hannah.
‘You can see them too, now?’ she says elatedly. ‘The colours in the rainbow?’
I nod.
‘So that means, I think, that I’ll be able to see the faires too!’ 
‘I can’t come!’ Hannah says miserably. ‘I came back for dinner, and I told them about the fairies I’d seen; I’ve been told I shouldn’t go down there again just yet!’
Dinner!
I don’t think I’ve had anything to eat all day, have I?
But it doesn’t matter.
Seeing the fairies for myself is far more important.


*


I head for the bush where Hannah had seen the fairies.
I suppose they must really be flying everywhere about me.
But I know for sure that Hannah saw them here.
So it’s not until I reach the bush that I slip my spectacles on.
And there they are; the fairies.
More gloriously beautiful than I could have ever thought they might be.
Like the most delicately gorgeous people in miniature, and sprouting wings so transparent they hardly appear to be there, especially when they’re vibrating so rapidly they could be nothing but sparkling bursts of light.
They’re not the least bit intimidated by my presence, even when they realise I can see them. Rather, they flutter everywhere about me, landing on my shoulders, in my hair, taking an interest in me every bit as avidly as I’m taking an interest in them.
The others continue with their tasks or play, collecting spider web, it seems, for weaving, or pollen, perhaps, as some form of crop gathering.
Many though, are marvelling at the spills of paint upon my dress; for yes, I can see those too now.
How could I spill paints I never created?
I must have formed them accidently, when mixing other concoctions, including the oils for Isaac’s equipment.
If I can only remember how I created them – why, then I might even be able to paint these wondrous creatures.
If only, that is, they will ever sit still long enough for me to capture their likeness!


*


Chapter 32

‘So; you can see them at last!’
The amused chuckle comes from just behind me.
Whirling around, I see that a grinning Aelfric has silently drawn close while I’ve avidly watched the fairies at play and work.
‘When, do you think, you’ll be able to start painting them?’ he asks.
‘I only have two colours, the ones you gave me, that will be of any use,’ I reply dejectedly, even as I indicate the paint daubs upon my dress. ‘It will take me quite a while to recall which of my mixtures created these tints.’
Aelfric frowns theatrically, as if carefully pondering this.
‘Well, if you’ve created them once before then – why, I can’t see why they might not be, somehow, already in your paintbox?’
‘You mean…?’ I look hopefully into his eyes.
He nods, smiles.
Despite my excitement, I only slowly rise to my feet, taking care that I don’t disturb any of the fairies fluttering about me. 
‘I’ll be back!’ I promise gleefully as I rush off back towards the house.


*


Chapter 33

I’m so eager to dash back to my room and pick up my paintbox that I forget to put my spectacles safely away in their case.
Thankfully, I’m sure footed in my running, even across the creaking beams of the old manor’s upper floor.
I don’t trip, or even stumble.
And yet, as I reach the door to my room, I come to an abrupt, shocked halt.
My room is full of the most darkly evil creatures I have ever seen.
Creatures like huge birds, massive cranes, with immense, gawpingly bulbous eyes and beaks that curl down almost to the floor.
Of course, after my initial shock, I recognise these frightful creature for what they really are; doctors, wearing the posy-filled masks they hope will protect them for the effects of the plague.
Yet here they are, smashing my things.
Violently tossing aside my jars of paint, scattering the colours everywhere about them.
Colours that are the brightly wonderful tints of the fairies.


*


Chapter 34

‘Here she is!’ one of the hideous creatures growls as he turns and sees me.
Looking up and towards me, the other devils quickly move to surround me, observing me keenly through their frighteningly globular eyes.
‘There’s no signs of plague!’ one wheezes with relief, eagerly wrenching off his mask to reveal a sweaty red face no less terrifying in the creases of its unforgiving anger.
‘Just madness, then,’ another agrees, taking off his own beak. 
Every beak comes off, the faces of the men revealed stern and accusing, their eyes still bulging in their rage.
‘Has your master ever mistreated you?’
‘Why have you destroyed his experiment?’
‘Is this how you repay him? Involving his young sister in your crazed schemes?’
‘Your madness is clear; who else but a mad woman would have paintbox of nothing but purple paints!’


*


Chapter 35

I can sit by the stream, admiring the view, even though I no longer paint.
My box is filed with other concoctions, those of the doctors’ making.
They’ve promised Isaac that these mercurial fluids, if taken regularly, will cure me of my madness.
They appear to work, too.
I no longer, thankfully, think I see fairies.
Or colours that – as it has been proven by my master’s own experiments – cannot possibly exist.
And so my dress, too, at last appears cleansed of its imaginary stains.
The flowing river, of course, has its own amazing array of wonderful tints and tones: the streaming, ever-moving waters sparkling in the sun, its riverbed of innumerable pebbles glittering like so many lost gems.
It’s a beautiful world.
A world of the most wondrous sights. 
It doesn’t really need the beauty of fairies, does it, to make it more wonderful still?
Is it the fairies that have gone to sleep?
Or is it me?


End




If you enjoyed reading this book, you might also enjoy (or you may know someone else who might enjoy) these other books by Jon Jacks. 

The Caught – The Rules – Chapter One – The Changes – Sleeping Ugly
The Barking Detective Agency – The Healing – The Lost Fairy Tale
A Horse for a Kingdom – Charity – The Most Beautiful Things (Now includes The Last Train)
The Dream Swallowers – Nyx; Granddaughter of the Night – Jonah and the Alligator
Glastonbury Sirens – Dr Jekyll’s Maid – The 500-Year Circus – The Desire: Class of 666
P – The Endless Game – DoriaN A – Wyrd Girl – The Wicker Slippers – Gorgesque
Heartache High (Vol I) – Heartache High: The Primer (Vol II) – Heartache High: The Wakening (Vol III)
Miss Terry Charm, Merry Kris Mouse & The Silver Egg – The Last Angel  – Eve of the Serpent
Seecrets – The Cull – Dragonsapien – The Boy in White Linen – Porcelain Princess – Freaking Freak
Died Blondes – Queen of all the Knowing World – The Truth About Fairies – Lowlife
Elm of False Dreams – God of the 4th Sun – A Guide for Young Wytches – Lady of the Wasteland
The Wendygo House – Americarnie Trash – An Incomparable Pearl – We Three Queens – Cygnet Czarinas
Memesis  – April Queen, May Fool – Sick Teen – Thrice Born – Self-Assembled Girl – Love Poison No. 13
Whatever happened to Cinderella’s Slipper? – AmeriChristmas  –  The Vitch’s Kat in Hollywoodland
Blood of Angels, Wings of Men  –  Patchwork Quest  –  The World Turns on A Card  –  Palace of Lace
The Wailing Ships  –  The Bad Samaritan  –  The 13th Month  –  The Silvered Mare  –  SpinDell
Swan Moon  –  Lesser Nefertiti  –  The Unicorndoll  –  My Shrieking Skin      


