



THE UNAVOIDABLE SINS OF A PRIEST
THE THINGS THEY HIDE FROM YOU
By
MICHAEL J. FRANK






The Unavoidable Sins of a Priest
Published by Michael J. Frank
Copyright2020 Michael J. Frank
All rights reserved
This e-book is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This e-book may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each reader. If you’re reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to smashwords.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.  
This is a work of fiction. Names, places, characters and incidents are either the product of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously, and any resemblance to any actual persons, living or dead, organizations, events or locales is entirely coincidental.




ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Foremost, I wish to thank God who bestowed in me the passion to write. I wish to appreciate Rev. Fr. Stephen Idoko who always got my back. I also appreciate my family for their supports and my friends for their encouragements and you … that have spared your precious time to read this novel. I pray you find the novel worthwhile to meet your expectation. I remain honoured.
DEDICATION
This work is written in memory of Rev. Fr. Angus Fraser CSSP founder of the Via Christi Society. 
CHAPTER ONE
Reverend Thomas had quality time to reflect on his vocation to the priesthood during the one week retreat that was supposed to prepare him for the priestly ordination. He had a vision from childhood to become a priest to serve God and humanity. He had undergone formation in the seminary for nine years. While in the seminary, he availed himself to be formed by his formators. He did not only abide by the rules and regulations of the seminary while he was a student but ensured that the principles governed his life as he desired to live a holy life. He saw himself as a potential priest the first day he entered the seminary, thus he was deliberate in his conduct and modeled his life after Jesus Christ. Even though some of his mates ridiculed him at some point in their training, he was trusted by all. 
During his training, he realized that every bad habit could be curtailed. He understood that a person could develop the virtues of goodness and kindness through willful resolution and practice. He learned to manage his anger that he once felt was hereditary. He would withdraw when offended, take a deep breath, and count from one to ten before he responded or spoke. 
He was always offended when his mates teased him with all kinds of funny and derogatory names. He often reacted when they called him “Cross of Calvary”. He would become aggressive as he would raise his voice and threaten to report them to one of the formators if they continued to call him Cross of Calvary. He realized that they preferred calling him Cross of Calvary because he disliked it. He saw that some of his mates derived pleasure and joy teasing him as well as making others feel timid and intimidated. 
If he had to survive a heart attack, then he had to learn to accommodate their derogatory statements. Thus, he saw that being quick to anger wasn’t an option if he wanted to live a holy life. His mates almost forgot that they gave him a nickname when he developed self-control and smiled whenever they teased him with the nickname Cross of Calvary. 
He pictured a priest as a man of prayer, and a man familiar with the bible, so he created quiet time for himself outside the mandatory prayer sessions in the seminary programme. He developed a mindset to submit all his challenges and struggles to God in prayers. He prayed unceasingly whenever he was depressed and struggling with crisis and indecisiveness about his vocation to the priesthood. 
He always visited spiritual directors in the seminary for guidance and counseling sessions. He often gained relief after counseling sessions with a spiritual director because the spiritual director listened to him, shared experiences with him, and exposed him to the implications of the options before him. No matter the emotional and mental crisis he experienced that caused him to question his vocation to the priesthood, he was comforted after a session with a spiritual director. 
He endeavoured to be open to his spiritual directors no matter how embarrassing and uncomfortable it might seem; he told them about his sexuality and his desire for intimacy with the opposite sex. They appreciated his openness and they guided him on the healthy and proper ways to maintain friendship with ladies that wouldn’t lead to intimacy. 
He studied useful and relevant books that built his spirituality. He avoided books that he felt might corrupt his mind. He believed that anything he read had an influence on him unconsciously; if not at the moment, then in the future. Thus, he was selective about the kind of books he studied, the movies he watched, and the discussions he engaged in. Often, he seemed indifferent among his mates as he wasn’t carried away by any of the trending fashions. His mates always complained that he lacked insight for quality clothes, and his views were always awkward. That was the reason why the named him ‘The Man from the East’ when he was in Theology Three.  
He was in the Cathedral after they returned from the monastery where they held the seven days’ retreat. He called his mother who was supposed to supervise the food preparation. He also called his siblings who were supposed to arrange the venue where he would host his guest after the ordination. They assured him that everything was under control. He also received calls from his friends who congratulated him in advance. He spoke to the parish priest of his hometown who was supposed to organize his first mass ceremony and he assured him that every preparation had been arranged.  
He was unable to sleep as he fantasied about Tomorrow’s ordination ceremony based on the ordination ceremonies he had attended. He had always wished he was among those to be ordained anytime he attended ordination ceremonies. He smiled as he realized that the day he had always dreamed about would be tomorrow. He imagined how he would wear his liturgical wear as a deacon and carry his chasuble on his arm. He imagined his composure from the Sacristy where they would dress up and process to the altar. He imagined every part of the mass and was fulfilled to think that after the mass, he would become a priest. He had heard instances where the Vocation Director informed some deacons in the sacristy that they wouldn’t be ordained. Unfortunately, some of these deacons were often traumatized and it often took them a while to regain and accept their fate. He knew he had been disciplined as a seminarian and hadn’t been found wanting for any misconduct in the school. Nevertheless, since priesthood seemed to be more of a call influenced by divine providence he was uncertain. This notwithstanding, he assured himself that he was called because if he were not called to become a priest, he wouldn’t be ordained a deacon in the first place. He decided to go outside when he heard his colleagues discussing outside. They laughed when he walked towards them since the time was 2:00 am and they expected that he should be asleep. Reverend Thomas realized that they were also anxious and unable to sleep. 
“Guy, don’t you have a toilet inside your room?” Rev. Tony asked.
“Toilet?” Rev. Thomas was perplexed. “Do you want to use the toilet?”
“No, I am referring to you. I felt you came outside to ease yourself.”
“No, I came outside because I heard you guys talking.”
“It means you too, you are unable to sleep?” Rev. Fred said.
“Seriously, I have been rolling on the bed. This ordination thing has preoccupied my mind.”
“You are not the only one oh.” Rev. Gregory laughed. “This long-awaited ordination should come and go so that we would know the way forward.”
“If you haven’t known the way forward by now, when will you know the way forward again?” Rev. Philip asked. 
“Please, remind him that the chrism oil doesn’t change a crook; you are who you have always been and you will always be what you are now except you make a deliberate decision to change and not the ordination.” Rev. Alfred said.
“Don’t worry, my deliberate decision will come when I stand up after the litany of Saints.” Rev. Gregory laughed.
“Please, let me go inside and catch some sleep before you kill me with your funny talks, Gregory.”
“I need to sleep too.” Rev. Tony said.
“For me, I won’t sleep. I will be awake until I’m ordained. I don’t want people to start asking me ‘how did it happen?’” Rev. Gregory said.
“I don’t understand.” Rev. Thomas said.
“What if you sleep and wake up after the ordination ceremony; what will you do?” Rev. Gregory laughed.
“Is it possible for anybody to sleep like that?” Rev. Philip asked.
“When your village people are involved, anything is possible. Just shine your eyes as best you can.”
“Please Greg, stop scaring us; we have better things to worry about.” Fred said.
“That is why you don’t have to sleep because the only thing left to worry about now is ordination, all other things are secondary.”
“Wow! Tomorrow by this time I should be a priest.” Rev. Tony said.
“This time is too far; tomorrow by noon, I should be addressed, Reverend Father Gregory. How does it sound?”
“Do you want to know the truth?” Rev. Thomas looked at Gregory for confirmation. “It sounds awkward! Are you sure priesthood is your vocation?” 
“You have to take that back before we miss the ordination.” 
“Please, wait for me to leave here before you fight.” Rev. Philip laughed.
“Philip, is there any day you will be a man and stop being unnecessarily afraid? Right from the first day we entered the seminary you’ve remained scared of everything.”
“I am not scared; I am only being careful and disciplined.”
“At times, you have to test this vocation to see if it is truly your calling.” 
 “What are you even saying, Greg?” Rev. Thomas asked.
“You don’t have to play safe all the time, go off a bit and if it doesn’t cost you your vocation, it means you are called.”
“Is it today you want to test that?” Rev. Philip asked.
“Today isn’t too late.” 
“I think this devil that we always talk about that is in hell, is here right now and about to make somebody go astray.” Rev. Tony said.
“I’m telling you!” Rev. Philip said. “Please let me leave here before this your possession becomes infectious.”
“I don’t blame you! It is you that is possessed.” 
“C’mon, do you know that I am an anointed deacon; anointed with chrism oil? I should be the one to possess the devil instead.” 
“So I am the one anointed with groundnut oil, isn’t it?”
“We can’t completely dispute that right now based on your disposition.” Rev. Tony joked and shifted backwards. He knew that Rev. Gregory would want to hit him.
“You are not serious.” Rev. Gregory laughed.
“I’m going inside.” Rev. Thomas yawned.
“Make sure you wake up on time because tomorrow will be a long day.” Rev. Fred said.   
CHAPTER TWO
Rev. Thomas seemed to have heard the sound of footsteps while sleeping so he jumped up from the bed. He was unable to see his phone as he searched for it on the bed. He had to look for the light switch on the wall to turn on the light. He touched the switch and turned on the light bulb. He looked around in search of the wall clock but saw that there was no wall clock inside the room. He was amazed as he felt that he saw a wall clock inside the room before he slept. As he walked toward the bed to search for his phone, he remembered that he saw the wall clock in the Cathedral Administrator’s room. 
He saw his phone on the upper edge of the bed. His heartbeat increased as he pressed the power button of the phone to check the time. He was relieved to see that the time was 5:30 am. He took a deep breath and sat on the bed to regain himself. He yawned and lay on the bed as he stared at the ceiling. He felt discomfort as he was unsure of what would happen during the ordination ceremony. 
The Deacons were amazed when they saw the crowd that came for the ordination. The families, friends, and well-wishers of the deacons came in large numbers for the ordination. Inside the cathedral was packed full of people. The people outside tripled the number of people inside the church. The cathedral could carry fifteen thousand people. Nevertheless, the overwhelming number of people inside the church created little room for breathing space because some people stood at the spaces around the edges. The church carried more than seventeen thousand people. The people would do anything to witness the ordination so they continued to struggle to enter the church.
They sang praises as the deacons, priests, and bishop processed to the altar from the sacristy. The deacons composed themselves even though the people tried to get their attention as they waved them. The Mass began at 10:05 am and finished at 12:35 pm. The congregation shouted as the newly ordained priests blessed them. The newly ordained priests came out after the Mass. Their family members raised some of them on their shoulders as they took them to the car. They left the church premises to the venues where their reception was supposed to be held.
Fr. Thomas was fulfilled when his mother embraced him as he came out of the church. His friends and brothers knelt before him so that he would bless them. He spread his hands, prayed and they shouted “Amen” after he concluded the prayer. They raised him on their shoulders and took him to the car that would convey him to the venue for the reception. People kept congratulating him and some knelt before him to bless them. He felt fulfilled exercising the duties of a priest which was a dream come true. 
After the reception, they traveled to his hometown for his first mass. The people gave him a warm welcome as he arrived at his hometown. Although he arrived at 9:00 pm, the villagers who were unable to travel for the ordination waited in the parish to congratulate him. Fr. Thomas appreciated them for their patience and blessed them before they agreed to go home. They were delighted that they received a fresh anointing from a newly ordained priest. They were proud of Fr. Thomas because he was the first priest from their hometown. 
His first mass was celebrated successfully and his people gave him a car, a mass box, all the colours of the vestments, and one hundred and fifty thousand naira for fueling of the car. He appreciated their gifts and assured them that he would continue to pray for them in his Masses. He told them never to hesitate to call on him for support and spiritual assistance. He stayed in the parish house while he was in his hometown. He celebrated Masses in all the five outstations where he had the opportunity to express his gratitude for their donations and assistance. He was supposed to go for a month break before he would be posted to a parish. He chose to stay with his parish priest for a week. He believed that he would tour all the outstations in his home parish before the one week would elapse.  
He was undressing after he finished the Mass in Saint Edward’s Station. He heard a woman’s voice called “Father” with a faint voice. He turned and was surprised to see an old woman who wore a slightly torn and faded Christian mother uniform and a pair of slippers walking towards him as she supported her movement with a stick. 
She embraced Fr. Thomas as she reached where he stood. “My son, seeing you celebrating mass today makes today my happiest day. Congratulations my son.” 
“Thank you, Mama.” Fr. Thomas smiled and took a step backwards after she released her hands.
“I am a close friend of your grandmother and your father grew up in my eyes. I know him very well. I am surprised that he has a son that has grown to the level of becoming a priest.”
“Mama, so you know my father?”
“Of course, I know him. He even farmed for me and I also supported him when he schooled in the city. Your father was hard working and focused while growing up. I know he would give birth to a responsible and decent son that would turn out to be great.”
“He would be happy to know that I met you.”
“When you tell him that you met Mama Agnes, he will remember me immediately.”
“Okay Mama, I will tell him.”
“Look at how time flies; the son of Donatus of yesterday is now a priest. God be praised.”
“Amen.” Fr. Thomas laughed. 
She loosened the right edge of her wrapper and removed three hundred naira. She extended her hand with the money to Fr. Thomas. “I am even ashamed to give this to you my son; please manage it.”
“No mama, you don’t have to bother yourself.”
“Please, take my son.”
“Please, mama, don’t worry; I am fine.”
“Even though it doesn’t amount to anything, you should add the money to the one you want to use to buy fuel for your car. At least, you burnt fuel coming here.”
“Mama, I have enough money to buy fuel.”
“Is money ever enough?” She laughed. “You don’t want God to bless me, now do you?”
“Of course, I want God to bless you.”
“Then collect this money from my hand. It is my widow’s mite; or do you want me to call people to help me to beg you to collect the money?” 
“No Mama, don’t bother yourself. Okay, let me pray for you.”
“Collect the money from my hand first before you pray for me.”
Fr. Thomas reluctantly collected the money. Even though he felt embarrassed, he was pleased with her willingness and determination to give the little she had to support his mission. He was comforted with the satisfaction on her face as she smiled when he collected the money. He laid his hands on her head as she knelt and prayed for her. He removed one thousand naira from his pocket and handed it over to her, but she refused. She walked away as she knew that Fr. Thomas would want to insist that she should collect the money. Fr. Thomas smiled and shook his head as he watched her walked away.
CHAPTER THREE
Fr. Thomas was impressed when he went to Saint Cecilia’s Station to celebrate mass. He was informed before the mass that some of the members of the congregation stepped inside the church for the first time. Some of them denounced their pagan deities when they heard that their community had produced a catholic priest. They had vowed that they would only step inside the church if a priest was ordained from their community. 
The church leader ensured that he reminded them about their promise when Fr. Thomas was ordained and most of them agreed to come to the church. Whereas, some of them remained adamant. During his sermon, Fr. Thomas seized the opportunity to encourage them to completely renounce the practice of paganism. He told them the benefits of Christianity and the immense love God had for humanity to have given His only son to die to wash away the sins of mankind and give mankind a place in his kingdom. 
He told them that they wouldn’t require the sacrifice of animals to seek for God’s graces and protection because the blessing of God was sufficient for everybody no matter their status. He assured them that God would bless them abundantly if they became steadfast in serving God.
The church leader led Fr. Thomas to the houses of the villagers who denounced pagan worship. They brought out their charms and amulets and Fr. Thomas burnt them after praying. Even though he was a priest, he was frightened when he saw some of the charms the people brought. 
Some brought sculptures that their eyes were blinking. Some of the inanimate objects spoke because they were possessed by demons. The demons flee after he prayed and poured holy water on the charms. He was also astounded when some of the amulets disappeared after he prayed. This was the first time he encountered such events. He refused to believe that such circumstances existed when he watched them in movies. Now, he had witnessed it and he had to confront it as a priest. He saw the people’s reactions as they often shifted backwards anytime any of the charms moved or disappeared. However, being a religious leader he had to be bold to confront any aggressive display by the charms.
He had to compose himself when one of the villagers brought a black and shiny stone that had the potentials to change into different animals. Mr. Edwin who was a wizard said that the stone was the god they worshipped in their coven. With the stone, they had the power to conjure, manipulate, or kill their targets. He called the names of the men, women, and children he had killed. He claimed he was the leader of the coven and wished to repent of his diabolic act. He promised to completely renounce his evil ways and become a Christian. He said he could appeal to the deity to transform into any animal he chose. 
The congregation scattered when the stone changed to a snake when Fr. Thomas was praying. He would have shifted backwards when the snaked attempted to strike him, but he held his ground and continued to pour holy water on the snake. The prayer warriors who were supposed to join him in the prayer stood afar. He was firm and continued praying when the snake struggled to come close to where he stood. The snake changed to a cat as it kept struggling. Fr. Thomas continued to sprinkle holy water on the cat. It later changed to an owl and tried to fly but it was glued to the floor and could only flap its wings and struggle. It returned to stone and started talking. 
“You don’t want to allow me to go and you don’t want me to stay in peace.”
“You are evil and the only place you will go to is the pit of hell where you have come from.”
“This is my territory and Edwin has sworn allegiance to me; if I am going anywhere, he is going with me.” 
The people were amazed as they saw the stone speaking. Fr. Thomas had to be courageous to communicate with the stone. 
“You don’t have any power over Edwin because he belongs to God now.”
“Says who; you? Nobody takes what belongs to me; except you want to die trying and die you must.”
“You lie big time in Jesus' name! This is your final bus stop because the God I serve has assured me that you are on your way to hell!”
“And you think I am frightened when you call the word hell? Hell is where I belong, here is where I make disciples. So stop thinking that I will shiver when you call hell because I am familiar with that place; rather you should be the one frightened because I am about sending you to where you are not familiar with.”
“Wake up from your slumber because today you will cease to exist in Jesus' name!” 
“I see you like talking, but I hate listening as I lack the patience; let the show begin – snake in the monkey shadow!” The stone transformed into a snake and moved to attack Fr. Thomas. 
“I rebuke you in Jesus' name.” Fr. Thomas sprinkled holy water on the snake. “Blood of Jesus!” He shouted repeatedly.
The snake began to rotate and jump from one end to another. “Please, don’t send me to hell; all that I said, I didn’t mean any of them; please allow me to leave in peace.”
“You are not going to leave in peace; you are going to leave in pieces in Jesus' name.” Fr. Thomas sprinkled holy water on the snake.
“Please, have mercy on me! Hell is not a home for anybody. I dread that dungeon too. Please be merciful.”
“Return to the pit of hell where you have come from in Jesus' name.” Fr. Thomas sprinkled holy water on the snake.
“This is unfair.” The snake shouted as it was struggling. “I am not giving up this easily; I am going to reinforce and come back.”
“Be gone in Jesus' name!” 
“The battle line has been drawn! Watch your back!” The snake shouted as it disappeared.
Fr. Thomas took a deep breath of relief as the snake disappeared. He blessed Mr. Edwin and gave him the audience to confess. The villagers who held Mr. Edwin in high esteem were disappointed that he was a wizard. He was the last person they expected to be a wizard in the village. Even though he was a pagan, he was calm and tempered. He listened and sympathized with people when they were in trouble, he settled conflicts and supported different families with financial assistance. 
They shook their head when Mr. Edwin said he had initiated three out of every ten children in the village. He said it would take a child with a strong spirit not to be initiated after eating the fruits he often gave to the children. The villagers marveled while he spoke since they saw him as a generous man and a lover of children. They were disappointed that there was an ulterior motive behind his generosity. Fr. Thomas saw that he had the task to pray for all the children in the village. He ought to organize a crusade to exorcise them. 
Mr. Edwin said that his three children died mysteriously because he sacrificed them to the diabolic gods he served. One of his children died in a car accident that somersaulted eight times when he was traveling to Abuja where he worked. He was the only person inside the car that died in the accident. Another one was confirmed dead in the morning even though he went to sleep healthily. The third one complained of a slight headache and slumped. The villagers exclaimed when he said he also sacrificed his wife that died twenty years ago as a result of complication in childbirth. He claimed he sacrificed her and the baby to his gods. He claimed that the extended members of his family that suffered one misfortune or another was caused by him. He said he cast a spell on them that hindered them from progressing.
He called the names of those who were also members of the coven. The villagers doubted when he called Mr. Anthony and Mr. Fredrick who were active church members. None of the people he called denied being part of the coven because they claimed they were tired of the treachery and wickedness the diabolic gods had influenced them to commit.
Fr. Thomas organized a crusade in the evening around 4:00 pm and most of the villagers attended the crusade. He was amazed that information reached the neighbouring villages at such short notice since members of the neighbouring villages also came in large numbers. Most of them denounced the gods they worshipped. Fr. Thomas prayed for the children whom Mr. Edwin and the members of his occult group initiated. The initiated children vomited different objects during the prayer session. Some vomited red cloth, others vomited human finger, while some vomited living lizard and scorpion. Fr. Thomas was astonished as he saw what the children vomited. If he wasn’t around, he would have doubted that anything of this nature was possible. While in the seminary, he was among those that refused to accept the existence of witchcraft.
CHAPTER FOUR
Fr. Thomas went to the parish house after the crusade ended at 8:00 pm. He met the parish priest eating at the dining table when he entered the house. The parish priest smiled and shook his head as he saw him. He was impressed that he approached the priesthood with so much energy and passion. They exchanged pleasantries. 
Fr. Thomas dragged one of the chairs at the dining backwards and sat on it. He took a deep breath as he rested on the chair. 
“I see that you are tired!” The parish priest smiled. “Well done; but you can’t finish the work of God in one day so don’t kill yourself, Father.”
“What I saw today, if I weren’t there I would have doubted that such things are possible.”
“In spiritual warfare, anything is possible.”
“Father, I talked with a stone that changed to different animals.”
“This is serious; I have never encountered that kind of one. You mean a stone talked in Saint Cecilia’s station?”
“Yes, Father.” Fr. Thomas nodded. “It took the grace of God for me to confront that stone. The people shifted backwards and almost ran off.”
“What do you expect them to do? Do you think they share in the anointing of the priesthood with you? Your case will be that you fought a good fight while battling with demons if anything would have happened, but their case would be the height of foolishness. So in this ministry, you should never let your guard down else you will be ridiculed by one of these terrible demons.”
“I have never been this frightened before.”
“You are even fortunate that the demon didn’t try to play with your emotions to expose the things you did secretly.”
“But Father,” Fr. Thomas sat up. “People are terrible; what joy can somebody derive from spoiling innocent children by initiating them into occultism. Almost thirty percent of the children in the station were initiated into the coven. And the funny thing is that they are unaware of it.” 
“Is it that terrible? People have complained about that village, but I didn’t expect it to be this bad.”
The parish priest affirmed that the villagers had complained about a series of mysterious things that happened in the community, but he didn’t expect that it would be as serious as Fr. Thomas presented it. The parish priest said that some of the villagers died just stepping out of their houses because some diabolic persons dropped charms in front of their houses overnight. He said some suddenly noticed their bodies inflamed after waking up in the morning which made them suffered terrible burns. Some complained that they were beaten in their dreams and they woke up feeling body pains as they saw bruises on their bodies. He said the villagers also complained that they were ridden like a horse in their dreams and they woke up feeling tired and weak which led to illness in which some died afterwards. He commended Fr. Thomas for his deliverance activities at the outstation and encouraged him to be prayerful. They went to the chapel after the meal to say the night prayers from the divine office.  
Fr. Thomas noticed that he was stiff while asleep; as if he was tied to the bed. His eyes were open and he noticed the movement of somebody in the room, but he was unable to move any part of his body. He was unable to speak. He was only aware of his thought as he kept praying. He was distressed as he struggled to move his body and speak. The ceiling shook as if it wanted to fall on him. And the bed seemed to be rotating. He was unsuccessful as he continued to struggle to speak and move his body. The creature that moved inside the room tried to come closer to his bed but withdrew when Fr. Thomas thought of the words “Jesus Christ” inside his mind. Fr. Thomas felt the close presence of the creature anytime it moved towards his bed; he also felt when it withdrew. The creature persisted in its attempt to come closer to him on the bed, but was unsuccessful as Fr. Thomas continued to pray. 
Fr. Thomas later felt as if he was upside down and being compressed. He could feel every part of his body but he felt so heavy that he was unable to raise his head. It was a painful experience that he wished it could stop. The room began to shake as if there was a whirlwind inside the room. The door was shaking, the curtains were moving, the tables, the books on the shelf and the wardrobe were shaking. Fr. Thomas kept praying in his mind as he watched all that was happening. 
“I told you that I will come back! You can’t embarrass me that much in public and think you can go scot-free!” The creature found it difficult to come closer to him. “I wish I can control your mind and I will rip you from within.”
“Blood of Jesus save me.”  Fr. Thomas thought. 
“You messed me up and made me a laughing stock.” The creature said as he struggled to come closer to Fr. Thomas. “The whole me; the acclaimed tyrant, revered by all demons which have made me earn a place on earth as a deity.”
“Blood of Jesus save me.”
“You went to sleep unguarded thinking I won’t fight back. Why won’t I fight back? Do you know you sent me back to square zero? I am nobody in hell now, thanks to you! I have to begin the struggle afresh to get my reputation back!” 
“Blood of Jesus save me.”
“I can’t even walk freely in hell without burying my face in shame. Damn it, I just can’t help it! I’m the proud type; I always rub it on other demons’ faces that I am better than them; now, I am nothing – invariably nothing, and you caused it!”
“Blood of Jesus save me.” 
“I have to get back what you took from me; and it is simple. If I finish you, I will get my reputation back and even more; and this is the only chance I have got. I am not going back to those flames. I kind of love this earth the way it is!”
“Blood of Jesus save me.” Fr. Thomas said repeatedly as the creature made persistent effort to come closer to him and strangle him. It was a burden on Fr. Thomas as he struggled to speak. “Jesus Christ!” He shouted and regain control of his body. He realized that all the things that happened were unreal. The torment came as a dream and for him to have recovered, implied that he had defeated the demon. 
He knelt and prayed the rosary after which he read the bible. He glorified God to have given him the grace to defeat the demon for the second time. He knew that the demon was the stone he defeated in Saint Cecilia’s station. He checked his phone to see the time and saw that the time was 2:15 am. He studied the bible as he intended to wait until 3:00 am to say the divine mercy prayer. He lay on the bed after he finished the divine mercy prayer. He pondered what happened. He realized that he had taken so much for one day. He now understood the statement one of his lecturers often made in the seminary that “priesthood is more of an individual experience.” He slept off while staring at the ceiling.
He was disappointed when he woke up and saw that the time was 6:00 am. He was supposed to expose the Blessed Sacrament by 5:30 am for morning devotion before mass. He quickly wore his alb and rushed out of the room. He didn’t expect to see the parish priest because he assured him yesterday that he would celebrate the morning mass. He entered the sacristy where the altar servers, lectors, and the catechist waited for him to come. They had already removed the monstrance and altar stone from the altar as there was no priest around when it was 5:45 am. They presumed that the exposition would no longer be possible.
Fr. Thomas apologized for coming late when he entered the sacristy. He wore his vestment and they processed to the altar for the morning mass. He apologized to the parishioners for not being available to expose the Blessed Sacrament before he began the mass. He had to be patient to greet the parishioners after the mass. He also listened to their confessions. He would have loved to leave the church on time so that he would arrange his things as he was supposed to leave his hometown today, but he stayed to listen to their confession. He also encouraged some of the young boys who wished to become priests.
CHAPTER FIVE
Fr. Thomas was posted to Saint Patrick’s mission in a remote village. He was supposed to assist Fr. Raymond. He reported to the mission on Friday the 4th of April which was the date he was supposed to resume. Fr. Raymond gave him a warm welcome and took Fr. Thomas around after he put his luggage inside the room allocated to him. Saint Patrick’s mission was a small mission that was situated in a village, thus most of the parishioners were peasant farmers. 
Fr. Thomas had to adapt to a new lifestyle in the village because he was born and bred in the city. The village had no electricity power supply and no good road. The village would be his home until he would be posted to a new parish. 
Fr. Raymond laughed as he saw Fr. Thomas raised his phone above his head in search of network service. Fr. Thomas had been walking from one end of the church premises to another for the past one hour. He had been searching for a spot that he could get a network to call his mother. It had been over two months since he heard from his mother. He wasn’t bothered initially when he resumed duty at Saint Patrick’s mission and discovered that there was no network service. He expected that he would get network service anytime he went for the Deanery meeting. He lost hope when he attended the Deanery meeting in Saint Anthony’s Parish and realized that there was no network service there as well. All the parishes under the deanery were in remote villages and lacked basic amenities.
Some of the priests laughed when Fr. Thomas complained about the lack of network service in the village after the deanery meeting. They insinuated that the people had been forgotten by the government. They blamed the prominent politicians from the communities who settled in the cities and abandoned their people.
The politicians would only come home to clamour for votes during elections. Most of them claimed that the villagers were diabolic and evil. Whereas, these were the same villages they were born and bred before they moved to the town. They believed that witches and wizards would kill them when they knew that they were prosperous. Thus, being out of sight implied being out of mind. They were convinced that the witches only killed those that came to the village to show-off. For them, going to the village or permitting any member of their family to go to the village implied a death sentence. Most of them in the cities also refused to permit those in the villages to visit them as they felt that they would carry words about their successes to the village. Hence, their lives would be in danger. 
The priests also complained that this wrong mindset had caused unnecessary suspicion. Some families were quick to tag any old person in the family as a witch or wizard. When people died in their families they would point accusing fingers at the oldest person alive in the family; they would claim he or she should be the one eating them up to live longer and continue to cause havoc in the family. Some of them accused their parents as the cause of their predicaments and they easily abandon their parents to suffer. They believed that any assistance they render to them, they would take it to their coven and use it to hunt them. 
They had a slogan that ‘any good deed done for a witch attracted terrible consequences’. While they discussed, Fr. Thomas and some of the priests who grew up in the cities felt guilty because their parents also ensured they put every measure in place to prevent them from visiting their villages. Fr. Thomas first visited his village when he was already in the seminary. His parents allowed him to go to the village since he needed to be familiar with the people and the parish priest. His mother cautioned him to pray unceasingly while in the village as she claimed most of the people in the village were diabolic.        
Fr. Thomas looked frustrated as he was unable to get a network service. He refused to give up his search for a network service as he wished to speak to his mother today. Fr. Raymond shook his head and went inside to take siesta. He was surprised as he came out after forty-five minutes and saw Fr. Thomas still moving about in the compound looking for a network service. He was unable to beckon on Fr. Thomas as Fr. Thomas walked close to the gate which was about 200m away from the parish house. He walked towards Fr. Thomas laughing as he saw how serious Fr. Thomas was in his search for network service. 
“Father,” he said as he was closer to where Fr. Thomas stood. “What are you doing?”
“Sorry Father,” Fr. Thomas hissed as he was frustrated. “I didn’t notice you are here. Good evening Father.”
“Although I just came here; good evening. What are you doing around here?”
“Nothing serious.”
“Are you sure this isn’t more serious than you’ve said it? It is written all over you.”
“Father, is there any spot that I can get network here?”
“Now you are talking; my brother, if you want to get network service, you have to work harder than you think.”
“Work harder?” Fr. Thomas was perplexed. “If this one is not hard work enough Father, then I am doomed.”
“Don’t conclude too fast; if you lose hope this easily, what becomes of the people you lead. I heard there is a network service on that hill.” He pointed to a hill that was 2km away from the parish. “Although, I have never checked it out before because I have learned to survive without using a phone.”
“I can clearly see the hard work; do I have to go there just for network service?”
“Haven’t you done more than going there already?”
“So Father, you have noticed me all these while.”
“Yes, I wanted to give you the liberty to do a bit of exercise before I come to your rescue.”
“So there is no spot that I can get network service here.”
“None that I have discovered; except you are the one we have been waiting for to give us the breaking news; but I am sure it is abundant on that hill if it is worth the stress.”
“I will have to go to the hill then because it’s been long I heard from my mother.”
“Then what are you waiting for? You don’t have to have a second thought when it comes to your family in this vocation because they are the real ones you have gotten; you know, when they say somebody has always got you back? It is your family.”
“Thank you, Father.”
“Anytime, let me go to the office; I have an appointment with some couples that still think the world revolves around them.”
“God is your strength, Father.”
“That is just the backup prayer I need right now.” Fr. Raymond laughed as he walked away.
Fr. Thomas chose to go to the hill as he wanted to know about the welfare of his mother. He had to encourage himself to continue trekking as he seemed exhausted on his way to the hill. He would have loved to use his car but the path to the hill was narrow. Fr. Thomas shook his head and hissed as he compared the city with the village. In the city, he could sit on his bed or anywhere in his house to get full network service on his phone. A trivial issue like network service was something that was not considered in the cities. However, people in the village celebrated whenever they saw network service on their phones elsewhere apart from the hill. He acknowledged how funny life could be. What people reverenced and celebrated in rural areas was the same thing people discarded as unimportant in urban areas. 
He was excited as he saw network service on his phone for the first time since he reported to the parish. He was surprised as he took a step forward from where he stood and noticed that the network disappeared. He had to take a step backwards for the network to reappear on his phone. He was happy to hear from his mother. He marked the spot where the network was full. He walked around to survey the place and noticed that there were some spots that the network was poor and other places that there was no network at all.   
Fr. Thomas saw the weight of the sacrifice he made as a priest as he understood that he had to reduce his standard to relate with the people on the same level despite the level of exposure he had. It was ironic when he saw that people in the village do all they could to ensure that they leave the village to attain a better life in the cities, and here he was reducing himself to be part of the life dreaded by even those that stayed in the village. 


CHAPTER SIX
One thing Fr. Thomas dreaded the most was the insect that bit him whenever he stayed outside with nickers and sleeveless. He had to wear long sleeves and trousers anytime he came out to receive fresh air which inconvenienced him because the weather was usually hot. Adapting to life in the village was a challenge. The gadgets he had were useless. There was no electricity supply to watch movies and play music from his sound system when he needed them the most during the day time. The parish often turned on the generator in the night and it wasn’t consistent since the cost of purchasing fuel was expensive. Fr. Thomas saw himself living a solitary life as he always stayed indoors. 
Being a village settlement, the parishioners were not used to meeting their priests in the office. Therefore, Fr. Thomas attended to parishioners in the sitting room or the church premises because villagers preferred to meet their priest in the church after mass or follow them to the parish house to discuss. 
Fr. Thomas tried to change the norm as he announced in the church that office hours would be 8:00 am – 12:00 pm and 2:00 pm – 4:00 pm. He was discouraged as he waited in the office for the villagers to come for counseling sessions and none of them came. He got to know that they spent most of their time on the farm. If he had to see and relate with the people, he had to visit them in their houses or join them on the farm. 
Even though he spent most of his time praying the rosary and reading the bible, there were times that he wanted company. There were times he wished to express himself by discussing with people and laughing over jokes. He got to understand what some of his lecturers often said that ‘in the priesthood, they have to learn to enjoy loneliness and channel their energy into creative endeavours”.  He decided to develop himself by studying helpful and spiritual books and reading the bible. He also tried to dedicate more time to prayers since “a priest is a man of prayers”.
Fr. Raymond chose to farm with the parish land to preoccupy himself. He often inspected the farm during his spare time. He would weed the grasses, support the leaves with sticks, and pursue the birds and animals that came to devour on the crops. Fr. Thomas saw that Fr. Raymond enjoyed the routine when he reluctantly followed him to inspect the farm. 
He had to follow him after Fr. Raymond had appealed to him on many occasions to come and see the level at which his crops were developing. Fr. Raymond who was fulfilled that his crops were growing as expected wanted affirmation from somebody to encourage his hard work. The only person available was Fr. Thomas. Even though Fr. Thomas had given him so many excuses to decline his invitation, he had to accept because Fr. Raymond always talked about the farm at the dining table and wished that Fr. Thomas saw the level of improvement of his crops.
Fr. Thomas wished he had the kind of passion Fr. Raymond had for farming when he saw the satisfaction on Fr. Raymond’s face as he admired the growth of his crops. 
“Father, I haven’t seen a plant grown this big. Are these trees or cassava?” Fr. Thomas said as he saw how gigantic the cassava plants looked.
“Of course, these are cassava stems; although they are improved varieties.” Fr. Raymond touched it smiling. “It was given to me by a professor from University Jos.”
“Wow, this is my first time seeing this.”
“Then you owe me a bottle of wine for exposing you to the light; technological advancement is all-round now my brother.”
“Is this how the fruit is large as well?”
“If the fruits are not large, won’t we imprison the scientist for wasting their time and our time? The fruits are large and the good thing is that we can sell the stems too. Since I am the only one that has these improved species, I see every farmer as my potential customer. So, while you see faithful parishioners during Mass, for me, I see a business opportunity that will bring money to my purse.” Fr. Raymond joked.
“This is good, Father.”
“I haven’t even shown you my yams.” He walked ahead to the left side of the farm where there were hips of sand and sticks wrapped with leaves from the yams. “These are my yams and they extend down.”
“Wow” Fr. Thomas was amazed as he was unable to see the endpoint. “Father, how did you farm all these?”
“How else will I farm it if not to pay labourers and the generosity of some of the parishioners? The land was empty when I came and staying here without doing anything can make life miserable for you since there is no electricity supply, so I took the initiative to go into farming which has kept me busy.”
“It is a good one Father.”
“Do I have a choice?”
Fr. Thomas was tired of staying on the farm premises as he wasn’t a farming type. He knew that Fr. Raymond was born and bred in a rural settlement so he should be comfortable with farming, but he had no flair for farming and he was unready to develop the interest. 
He had stayed in Saint Patrick’s mission for more than a year and had found good company with the children that often came for baptism. He liked to answer their questions. He got to know about the activities of the villagers from their gossips. He got concrete knowledge about the people from the children and the stories they told him which allowed him to preach sermons that related to their way of life during Masses. Through the children, he got closer to their parents. 
He prepared himself with the expectation that the villagers would massively come out to attend any spiritual programme he organised. He would announce a date for a retreat programme on Sunday and urge all the parishioners to attend for their spiritual growth. However, he was always disappointed when their attendance was poor as they would always stay on their farms or go to the market. Hence, those that always attended were children. He was hurt seeing their poor attitude towards church activities.
He complained to Fr. Raymond and Fr. Raymond told him that it would be difficult for the parishioners to come out during weekdays for church programmes. He told him that the people cared less about their spiritual life; they were more concerned about their farms and businesses. He was also sad to inform Fr. Thomas that some of them always went to the farm on Sunday. Fr. Thomas was discouraged because he often channeled lots of energy to prepare himself for the programmes. He felt the programme was an avenue to educate the people and ground them in the teachings of the Roman Catholic Church.  
The time he spent preparing for the programme engaged him as he would pray for inspiration for two hours and carry out some research to prepare his spiritual talks. He was always busy because the objective he had to educate the people preoccupied him. Nevertheless, the poor attitude of the people to the programmes weakened his spirit and made him feel that his effort was wasteful. 
He tried to emphasize the importance of spiritual programmes in their lives and activities in his sermons on Sunday Masses. Seeing that they were busy engaging in farm activities during the weekdays, he rescheduled the programmes to occur on Sunday; yet the parishioners were unconcerned about it. Most of them claimed that Sunday was meant for rest after a stressful week on the farm. 
He decided that ‘if the mountain will not come to Muhammad, then Muhammad must go to the mountain’; thus he chose to visit the families in their houses. The children led him to their houses where he met their parents and encouraged them to take their church activities seriously. He discovered that he had to visit them often as they would come out for only a short time and relax after a while. He understood that people only worshipped God when they faced challenges of ill health or want. He had to conclude that people in their normal disposition were lax towards the worship of God. 
He had to look for creative means to encourage them to come to the church. He would have to start with the youths who preferred to attend Pentecostal churches where they danced and sang more of praises and worship songs during their services. He organized youth week where there were games and retreats. He invited different priests to moderate the retreat so that the unfamiliarity would motivate and attract them to the retreat. He waved the distress away when he saw that the youth would come out in large numbers for the games, but few would turn up for the retreat. And most of them that came, only a few stayed until the end of the retreat. He was displeased with their attitude and prayed for God's intercession. 
Fr. Thomas was in his room as he reflected on the poor attitude of the villagers to spiritual activities. He lay on the bed but stood up as he heard a knock on his door. He wore his shirt because he was bare-chested due to the hot weather. He opened the door. He saw the houseboy at the door who seemed anxious. He informed him that a parishioner brought her son who was terribly sick. Fr. Thomas was perplexed when he heard that a parishioner brought her son to the parish instead of the hospital. He concluded that the parishioner might need money to take him to the hospital so he took his wallet from the bed as he followed the houseboy. 
Fr. Thomas saw the three years old boy convulsing on his mother’s hand through the window on his way out of the building. The woman was shivering and crying as she watched her son struggled to breathe. She ran towards Fr. Thomas when he came out of the parish house. Fr. Thomas was confused as he touched the boy’s face and saw that his temperature was high. The boy kept jerking and his eyes were fixed upwards. Fr. Thomas wouldn’t want to jump into a conclusion and think that the woman brought her son to the church because she needed money to take him to the hospital. He observed the woman’s appearance and saw that the woman was properly dressed with nice and neat wrappers and good pair of simple wear; her son also wore a good blue jean nicker and a brown singlet which implied that she could afford hospital bills. He had to speak to the woman to understand her motive before he would take action.
“Madam,” he looked at the woman after he touched the boy’s face. “Has this ever happened to your son before?” 
“No Father.” She sobbed.
“When did it start?”
“It started this afternoon when he woke up from sleep.”
“And you didn’t notice anything before he went to sleep?”
“No Father; it was after he woke up from sleep that I found him shaking and unable to talk. That is why I rushed him here.”
“This is a high fever. We have to rush him to the hospital. Let me get my car key.” Fr. Thomas rushed to his room.     
The woman seemed unsatisfied as Fr. Thomas said that the boy should be taken to the hospital because she felt it was a spiritual attack from witches and wizards. She was convinced that the illness was beyond hospital remedy. She decided that she would seek for prayers when Fr. Thomas would come out from his room. She met Fr. Thomas on his way to get his car and appealed that she would prefer prayers than taking the boy to the hospital. Fr. Thomas was uncomfortable with the idea, but he wouldn’t want to dismiss her request. He rushed inside and wore his alb and stole. He got his oil of the sick and pocket ritual from the car and prayed for the boy. Seeing the woman’s faith, he wished that after the prayers the boy should recover. The boy was jerking and shivering after he concluded the prayers. He was heartbroken when he saw the disappointment in the woman’s eyes. 
He had to encourage the woman to take the child to the hospital. The woman reluctantly followed him as she seemed to have lost hope. Fr. Thomas tried to make her understand that the boy was suffering from high-fever even though the woman looked unconvinced since she concluded that it was an attack. She doubted Fr. Thomas’ competence as a genuine spiritual leader. If not that Fr. Thomas insisted that the boy should be taken to the hospital, she would have loved to look for another solution. Fr. Thomas was unfulfilled as he could read from the woman’s countenance that she questioned the authenticity of his priesthood for not being able to heal her son. He had never felt so insufficient and wished that he had a gift to work a miracle at this moment that he sat inside the car with the woman.
They entered the hospital and the nurse on duty was quick to diagnose the boy seeing that a priest accompanied them. The nurse said that the boy had a high fever. She placed the boy on admission and gave him a drip. Fr. Thomas promised to come back when he left the hospital. He was depressed while going home as he felt he was unable to meet the woman’s expectations. He imagined how fulfilled the woman would have been if he had cured the boy’s sickness while praying for him. While he was in his room, the guilt of failing to meet the woman’s expectation troubled him that he was unable to eat launch. He went to the hospital around 4:30 pm to check on the boy. He was relieved to hear that the boy was recovering fast as his temperature had begun to normalize. His eyes had come down and he could speak. The woman appreciated him for his kindness and the food he brought for them. Fr. Thomas visited them until the boy was discharged from the hospital after two days.
CHAPTER SEVEN
Fr. Thomas decided to be innovative. He sought Fr. Raymond’s consent to make every Friday’s evening Mass a special Mass. He chose to give the Mass a name and he called it ‘Healing Mass’. Even though every Mass celebrated had been a healing Mass, he chose to give Friday Mass a unique name to inspire the people to come out. He had to spend more time in prayers and days in fasting as he wouldn’t want any attack after the deliverance of anybody possessed by demons. 
The first time he held the Healing Mass, few people came. He was disappointed seeing fourteen people in the church even though he had announced it for the past one month. He had to comport himself to celebrate the Mass. 
In the Healing Mass, the parishioners brought water for blessings. They had the avenue to sing praises and worship. They also had the opportunity to submit their petitions at the altar. During the Mass, they came to the altar for Fr. Thomas to lay hands on them and blessed them. 
The people were impressed as they enjoyed every stage of the Mass. Some of them who seemed possessed were delivered after falling during the prayer sessions. Fr. Thomas saw the impact of his preparedness and glorified God for the manifestations. He was encouraged at the end of the Mass even though the people that came were few. 
The people went home and spread the testimonies. They were excited as they told their friends, family members, and neighbours about the Healing Mass. They emphasized how they missed the blessings they should have received if they had attended the Healing mass. The people became anxious to attend the next Healing Mass. 
The parishioners were ashamed to greet Fr. Thomas after the Sunday Mass because they felt guilty for not responding to the invitation for the Healing Mass last week. They would have loved to discuss issues about the Healing Mass with him but since they failed to attend, they tried to avoid him.
Fr. Thomas had been looking out for the assistant church leader after the Sunday Mass. The assistant church leader failed to attend the Healing Mass because some boys were supposed to farm for him and he wanted to be present on the farm to inspect them. He would have allowed one of his sons to inspect the work, but he felt the Healing Mass was unimportant and people would fail to attend as usual. Fr. Thomas was disappointed that he failed to come because he was the one Fr. Thomas mandated to create awareness for the Healing Mass in the outstations.
He had been smart to dodge Fr. Thomas as he left the sacristy immediately after the Mass. He almost succeeded to leave the church premises before a parishioner beckoned on him. He would have ignored the person but the person persistently called him because the person was his neighbor and wanted him to wait for him so that they would go home together. He looked at the church door when he turned because he wanted to be sure that Fr. Thomas had gone to the parish house. He was unfortunate that his eyes met Fr. Thomas’ eyes when he turned. 
Fr. Thomas smiled and shook his head as he saw him. He signaled him to come. Mr. Nicholas wished that the ground should open so that he could enter inside and bury himself. He was unable to find a convincing reason to appeal to Fr. Thomas because he was present all the time that Fr. Thomas complained that the parishioners often failed to take church activities seriously. He looked for a place to hide his face as he walked towards Fr. Thomas. 
“Should I wait for you?” Mr. Godwin who called him asked.
“Am I holding your legs?” He hissed as he passed him.
“Have I said anything wrong?” Mr. Godwin was troubled seeing his reaction. 
“You have said everything wrong; why won’t people just mind their business.”
“Is it a crime to ask you to wait for me?” Mr. Godwin was perplexed as he stared at Mr. Nicholas while he walked towards Fr. Thomas.
He bent to greet Fr. Thomas as he came closer to where he stood. Fr. Thomas looked at him for five seconds before he answered him. “Mr. Nicholas, I haven’t seen you for a while now.”
“Father, I greeted you in the sacristy before the Mass.”
“Were you at the Mass?”
“Yes, Father.”
“I didn’t notice; unlike you, because you are always active during and after Mass. Why is the change today?”
“There was no change Father; I’m not feeling too well today, so I am hurrying home to get some rest.”
“Mr. Nicholas, is that the only reason you are going home?”
“Yes, Father; except you want me to do something for you Father.”
“No, I don’t; I didn’t see you in the healing Mass.”
“Yes Father, I missed my timing.”
“You want to tell me that you forgot the time for the Mass?” 
“No Father, I was delayed on the farm.”
“Wow, you were delayed in your farm, you mean?”
Mr. Nicholas understood the point he was making. “What I meant is that some people were supposed to come and work for me; I had to wait for them because they came late; and by the time I came home it was already late.”
“Mr. Nicholas, I hope you are telling me the truth; because you are the last person I expect to miss the Healing Mass last Friday.”
“I am sorry Father.”
“No problem, but you have to come for the next Healing Mass this coming Friday.”
“Where else will I be Father?”
“On the farm as you were last Friday because you don’t value the Mass.” 
“Father. I promise that this Friday, I will organize the entire community to come for the Healing Mass.”
“Should I count on you on that? You know that once beaten twice shy.”
“Not in this case Father; I won’t fail you this time Father. Inviting the entire community for this Healing Mass has become my project.”
“Then I am counting on you on that.”
“Father, I am sorry that I disappointed you.”
“No problem, just keep to your words.”
The children accompanied Fr. Thomas to the parish house. He discussed with the children under the tree and the children refused to leave even though he appealed to them to go home. They gave him updates about all the events that happened in the community. They told him that Monica the daughter of the secretary of the Christian Mothers’ Association gave birth to a bouncing baby boy. One of them joked that the baby was named John, and another argued that the child hadn’t been given a name because he was just a day old. It was an argument that Fr. Thomas had to intervene because Michael who said that the baby’s name was John claimed he heard it from Monica’s mother; whereas, Raphael refused to believe that a day old baby would be given a name before the naming ceremony. Fr. Thomas admitted that they were both right. He said that the child would be officially called John after the naming ceremony; and that didn’t mean that the child’s parent hadn’t chosen a name for the child. The children also told him about some members of the church and their parents that still attended traditional festivals were sacrifices were made to idols. They were innocent and told him that their parents also brought meats that were sacrificed to idols home for them to eat. 
Samuel who once told Fr. Thomas that somebody stole the money his father got from selling his farm produce, told Fr. Thomas that they had known the person that stole the money. He told Fr. Thomas that his mother’s younger brother who visited a day before his father sold his farm produce took the money. 
“Did they find the money with him?” Fr. Thomas was perplexed since he remembered that Samuel told him last week Wednesday that his Father was unable to see the money after searching everybody and the whole house. He was unable to point accusing fingers at anybody because he organized a community meeting in his house the day he discovered that the money was missing, and people trooped in and out of his house. 
“No, when my father asked him he denied.”
“So how manage did your father find the money with him?”
“My father didn’t find the money with him because he traveled three days after the money was stolen. He was the last person my father suspected to have taken the money since he joined my father in searching for the money and asking our neighbours for the money after they finished the meeting.”
“Then how is your father sure that he is the one that took the money?”
“My father went to one man that showed him how everything happened inside a calabash that has water.”
“Wow, your father went to this person’s house?” Fr. Thomas was selective in his choice of words as he didn’t want the boy to see that his father had gone to the shrine.
“Yes, he went to his house and my father said that the man brought the calabash with water, and inside the calabash, they saw how my uncle stole the money.”
“But how are they sure that the man is saying the truth?”
“The man told my father that he should ask my uncle and if my uncle should deny, he should be ready to face anything that comes.”
“And your uncle accepted just like that?”
“He refused to accept at first, but had no option when he woke up the next day and was unable to feel his right leg.”
“Wow, so has he returned the money?”
“Not all of them because he spent four thousand naira from the money and returned ninety thousand naira.”  
“Samuel, what class did you say you are again?” Fr. Thomas was amazed as he called the figures.
“I am in primary five Father.”
“Wow, and you know all these figures; is the school in this village?”
“Yes Father, he is my classmate.” Raphael said. 
“Father, you don’t think our school is good enough?” Samuel said.
“Far from that! And you know all these things? I think your school is the best.” He yawned and had to beg the children to leave him before they reluctantly accepted to go home. 
From his conversation with the children, he realized that the parishioners often consulted idols to seek solutions to their problems. He would have to discourage such practices since they were supposed to serve only one God. He saw that the only way he could achieve it was to emphasize it in his sermons and when he discussed it with them.  
CHAPTER EIGHT
Fr. Thomas had to come out of his room to see what was happening in the church premises as he heard noises. He just took his bath and wore his clothes in preparation for the Friday Healing Mass. He was amazed as he saw the crowd outside the church. He didn’t recall if there was any burial today in the church since that was the best reason that attracted large numbers of people to the church during weekdays. He had to call the houseboy as he came out of the building.
“Alfred, why are these people in the church? Is there going to be a requiem mass that Fr. Raymond will celebrate this evening?”
“Father, is there a requiem Mass?” Alfred was perplexed as he wasn’t informed; as such he didn’t set the Mass.
“I’m asking you because Fr. Raymond might have informed you to set the Mass.”
“Fr. Raymond didn’t tell me anything, Father.”
“Then what else will bring these people to church in such a number if not burial?”
“Father, they came for the Healing Mass.”
“Healing mass?” Fr. Thomas sounded surprised as he didn’t expect that they would come in such large numbers. 
“Yes Father; there is no space inside the church. These people outside are the people that are unable to find a seat inside the church.” 
“You don’t mean it!” Fr. Thomas whistled. “Are you saying these people came for the Healing Mass?”
“Yes, Father; I heard people came from the outstations and neighbouring communities to attend the Healing Mass.”
“Wow, this is interesting; it means people have more problems than I think.”
“Father, everybody wants deliverance and even me too, I want deliverance.”
“You better not be possessed else we will exorcise you and the demons out of this house.”
“Father, I am possessed by the Holy Spirit; just that no one knows; these things come uninvited.”
“Then ensure to make your body uninhabitable for them.” Fr. Thomas laughed as he entered the house. He was impressed and encouraged about the large numbers of people that came for the Mass.
He greeted the parishioners with a great sense of humour as he walked to the sacristy to prepare for the Healing Mass. Mr. Nicholas who was inside the church when Fr. Thomas entered the sacristy to greet Fr. Thomas. He wanted Fr. Thomas to see that he kept his promise. 
“Good evening Father.” He greeted while Fr. Thomas was looking for a suitable vestment to wear from the wardrobe. He was uncomfortable with the vestment the altar boys kept for him.
“Mr. Nicholas, so you are here today.” Fr. Thomas wanted to tease him. “I was afraid that you will not come.”
“Father, I told you that I will come and I will persuade many people to come.”
“So are you the one that spoke to all of them to come?”
“Not all of them, Father; that wouldn’t have been possible because I am surprised when I came to the church and saw the number of people that came.”
“We should all give glory to God.” 
Fr. Thomas vested for the healing Mass and they processed to the altar. While he was praying in the mass, some people that seemed possessed kept falling and rolling on the floor. Some of them shouted as if they had been set on fire. He walked around and prayed for them. 
Some demons challenged him as they questioned the authority he used to exorcise them. He was firm as he continued to pray and sprinkle Holy water on them. People were amazed as they saw that about thirty-five people were delivered. They were slow to laugh at the funny body movements of some of the possessed people during the deliverance sessions. They were afraid that the demons that were cast out and roaming about could enter them if they were not prayerful. 
They were amazed as they saw that ninety-six percent of those delivered were ladies. Some of them explained that women were vulnerable because of the things they wore. They claimed that some of the things were initiated from the marine world; things like wigs, lipsticks, jewelry, and makeup accessories. Thus, whenever they bought or used these things without being prayerful, they became possessed. Most of them waved the claim to be false as they knew that people had been intentionally initiated into witchcraft in the village and some were unintentionally initiated through gifted items from their friends who were members of the coven. 
When Fr. Thomas finished praying for the people that were possessed, he walked towards the altar; he was about to climb the stairs on the altar when a man ran into the church and stood behind him. Fr. Thomas was frightened seeing the way the man approached the altar. The man was shivering and his lips moved but he was inaudible. Fr. Thomas observed him for five seconds to be sure that the man was normal. He began to pray as he walked towards him. He sprinkled holy water on him as he approached him. He withdrew as the man began to laugh.
“Who do you think you are to challenge me?” He laughed. “I’m not others; I’m invincible; I stay where I want and I leave when I want!”
“Your end has come today; you evil demon from the pit of hell.”
“I like it when you call me evil; but you don’t have to rub it on my face that I am from hell because this is where I live now; so you have made me angry!” He rushed to grab Fr. Thomas, but Fr. Thomas was quick to shift backwards as he sprinkled holy water on him. 
“Blood of Jesus!” He shouted and the demon withdrew. 
“I like your stinking guts; I understand that you have been deceived to think that you have the power to defeat me; but you forget that before you, I have been there.”
“He that is me is greater than he that is in you.”
“I am who I am and there is nobody else in me; with me, all your wishes come true with the snap of my fingers.” 
“I rebuke you in the name of Jesus Christ; be gone from this body!”
“I am scared!” He grimaced and laughed. “Not so fast; you are too little to command me; I have conquered nations and made kings and rulers bow before me; I have made men and I have destroyed men and you are nothing compared to them!”
“That is because I am of the living God, the God who is the same yesterday, today, and forever.”
“And you think I am different?” He laughed. “I am Beelzebub the unchangeable.”
“Just what I have been waiting for! Beelzebub!” 
“Damn it; don’t I ever learn? I have shot myself in the head!” 
“Beelzebub, I command you in the name of Jesus Christ leave this body and return to the pit of hell!” Fr. Thomas continued to call his name as he prayed and sprinkled holy water on him. Beelzebub began to shout as he struggled to grab Fr. Thomas, but Fr. Thomas continued to sprinkle holy water on him which kept him back. Everybody in the church kept praying as they were frightened seeing the way he struggled and roared. 
“It is not finished! I will be back!” He shouted as he departed from the host who became weak and fell on the floor.  
“Thank you, Jesus!” Fr. Thomas raised his hands as he glorified God.
Fr. Thomas wouldn’t want to have the last experience he had with the demon snake two years ago to repeat itself so he remained in the chapel after the healing mass to pray. He prayed twenty decades of the rosary and recited the night prayers from the divine office after which he prayed Psalm 23, 35, and 69. He also said some prayers from the Pieta before leaving the chapel to his room.
Beelzebub appeared in the parish house and entered Fr. Raymond’s room. He roared when he entered the room and the parish house shook as if there was an earthquake. Beelzebub nodded his head in satisfaction for having entered the building in a big way which he believed would frighten Fr. Thomas and make him lose faith. 
“This is what I call triumphant entry! This is one thing I like about myself! I can’t help but feel myself!” He laughed. “You don’t expect that I will be back, do you? Even a weakling doesn’t run without a fight. Fr. Thomas, I have brought war!”
“I am not Fr. Thomas.” Fr. Raymond screamed.
“What!” Beelzebub asked. “You are not what?”
“I am not Fr. Thomas.”
“You want to tell me that all this show that I have staged to frighten Fr. Thomas is directed towards the wrong person? Damn it!” He roared. “How did I miss this? Then who are you, moron?” 
“I’m Fr. Raymond.”
“Also a priest? Then you are my sworn enemy; I will have to leave you with a share of my terror so that you will spread the news that you met me.” He made Fr. Raymond to be stiff and unable to move his body or speak. Fr. Raymond continuously prayed in his mind as he struggled to release himself.
“I have unfinished business; enjoy the show baby!” Beelzebub disappeared.  
He entered Fr. Thomas’ room. “So this is the room I missed along the way?” He said as he saw Fr. Thomas sleeping. “Anyway, not bad for a priest. Fr. Thomas, you sure messed with the wrong guy!”
Fr. Thomas felt it in his spirit that a demon had entered his room. He felt the presence of a being staring at him while he was sleeping. “Blood of Jesus!” He screamed as he woke up. 
“Don’t you have anything else to say?” Beelzebub felt the impact of Fr. Thomas’ words. He was surprised that Fr. Thomas could speak because he felt he had petrified him. “Is there any time you are weak that I can penetrate your soul?”
“You can never penetrate my soul in Jesus' name!”
“Says who? Says you? Then, you so underestimate me. I am powerful; nations kneel before me. Who the hell do you think you are? Just a common priest!”
“He that is in me is greater than he that is you.”
“There you go again; the same old story blah blah blah!” He laughed. “So what are you; an empty vessel?”
“Beelzebub, you have no place here! I command you in the name of Jesus Christ, be gone to the pit of hell where you have come from!” Fr. Thomas continued to pray and got his holy water from the side table. He stood up and began to sprinkle it around the room as he prayed.
“Please, please, please, let’s negotiate.” Beelzebub cried as he was tormented by Fr. Thomas’ prayer.
“I will never negotiate with a demon.”
“Even though it is in your best interest?”
“We have nothing in common so go back to your abode and never return in Jesus' name.” Fr. Thomas prayed. 
“You didn’t even give me an audience to hear my proposition.” Beelzebub cried as Fr. Thomas prayed. He was defeated and he disappeared. 
Fr. Raymond regained himself when Beelzebub disappeared. He turned on the light and looked around to inspect the room. He wanted to be sure that he was the only one inside the room. He came out of his room and heard Fr. Thomas praying in his room. He took a deep breath and went back to his room.
Fr. Thomas’ prayer flung Beelzebub from the earth and he landed in hell. He shook his head in anger as he stood up.
“Beelzebub, is that you?” Baal, the Snake demon said as he saw him. “Are you back so soon?” He laughed in mockery. “I thought as much.” 
“I underestimated Fr. Thomas.” Beelzebub shook his head.
“You wouldn’t have prepared more than this because that man is on fire.” 
“I have never been this humiliated in my entire existence.”
“I told you what he did to me, didn’t I?”
“Yes, but I am not you; I am always known as the victorious guy; I have left traces of my successes everywhere on earth; even the search engine called Google has information about my achievements; I shouldn’t be the one to tell you that my reputation precedes me wherever I go; people have been saying it.”
“Not after what happened to you today.” Baal laughed.
“Where do I begin from now?” Beelzebub bent his head in self-pity. 
“Don’t worry you will figure it out.”
Beelzebub sighed deeply. “But do we have to give up just like that?”
“Let me see” Baal paused. “I think there is a way to weaken him?”
“Are you sure you are smart enough to come up with a way when I haven’t figured it out yet?”
“This is the problem with you; you are too proud. If you had listened to me, you wouldn’t have been in this mess in the first place.” Baal who was also a proud demon knew that he was nothing compared to Beelzebub.
“You talk as if you are not in the mess already.”
“But if you had listened to me, you wouldn’t have been in the same state with me.”
“Don’t console yourself and rub it on my face; the deed is already done. Now, we should be thinking of a way forward. Okay, let me give you an element of doubt, and hear what you have to say; so hit me!”
“How about we appeal to the seductive demon to break him for us.”
“Wow, you amaze me with this idea; I hate to say that you are smarter than I think.”
“Let me take that as a compliment because that is the best you can give.”
“It is good you know.” Beelzebub shook his head as he took a deep breath. “I don’t believe that I will ever be reduced to this state – to seek help.”
“What else can you do? We all need help at one point in our hopeless existence.”
“What the hell are you saying? If your existence is hopeless, mine isn’t. I am still going to reclaim my rightful position in heaven.”
“In your wildest imagination, isn’t it? When a common priest could tumble you from the earth like a miserable human, how do you hope to achieve that?”
“I was working with a blueprint before this unexpected blow, but that doesn’t mean I have given up.”
“So what is this blueprint all about, if I may ask?”
“It is a secret but since you are my partner in crime now, I will reveal it to you. It is called ‘blackmail’.”
“Blackmail?” Baal sounded amazed.
“Yea, if not for this temporary predicament, I had wanted to conquer many souls, after which I will make the creator understand that either He gives me a pride of place or watches all these souls under me perish.”
“And you think that will work?”
“Of course it will; at least He wouldn’t have to sacrifice His Son the second time to redeem those miserable souls again. When my portfolio increases, all He needs to do to have many souls is just to give me a holla and we will sit on a round table to discuss terms and conditions.”
“But any soul under you is already damned; what makes you think He will break?”
“Leave that to me; there is always a way out; first things first, the priest.  Where the hell is Succubus?”
“This is the wrong place to find Succubus because he is most needed on earth where the order of the day is sexual fantasy than here.”
“Then send words to him; tell him that I Beelzebub, the invincible has offered him the privilege to work with me.”
“When will you accept that you have been rubbed in the mud and defeated; you are nothing anymore Beelzebub.”
“The fact that I underestimated the priest doesn’t mean I won’t bounce back. The only thing I have got now is my self-esteem and no one can take that away from me.”

CHAPTER NINE
Fr. Thomas sat on the first bench to recite his morning prayer after he celebrated Mass. He stayed there for thirty minutes before coming out of the church. He was unaware that the women that stood beside the entrance door were waiting for him, so he went out of the church through the sacristy. He entered his room and lay on his bed. He felt dizzy because he often woke up before 3:00 am to recite his divine mercy prayer. He slept off and woke up when he heard a knock on his door. He hissed when he opened his eyes because he wished he had time to sleep. He opened the door and saw Alfred standing beside the door.
Alfred informed him that some women were looking for him. He asked Alfred about the women to get a clue why they were looking for him, but Alfred seemed ignorant of their motive. Fr. Thomas wore his cassock and walked out. He was surprised to see four women waiting for him under the mango tree. They looked unkempt; they wore old wrappers, covered their hair with a faded head tie, and wore slippers. Fr. Thomas noticed that they wore a sad countenance. 
“Good morning Father.” They curtsied.
“Good morning Mama; what will make you stress yourselves to come and see me? Why not send words that you want to see me and I will come to your houses immediately?”
“No Father, we are the ones who should come and see you.” Mrs. Monica said.
“Look at the stress you have undergone just to come and see me?”
“It wasn’t stressful Father.” Mrs. Veronica laughed. “We also attended morning Mass.”
“Forgive my manners, you are not supposed to be standing; let me send for chairs as quickly as possible. Alfred!” He called as he turned to go and look for benches.
“No Father, we won’t be staying for long.” Mrs. Veronica appreciated his kind gesture as she saw that Fr. Thomas was willing to get a bench for them to sit. 
“Even though you are going to stay here for one second, I will be insulted if you come to visit me and stand while there are benches everywhere. You are my mothers.” He rushed and lifted the bench that lay beside the kitchen. Alfred who came from the backyard collected the bench from him and took it to where the women stood. Alfred insisted on taking the bench to them even though Mrs. Agatha attempted to collect the bench from him before he reached the mango tree. 
The women felt guilty and ashamed because they thought they inconvenienced Fr. Thomas. They appreciated his humility and were reluctant to sit when Fr. Thomas appealed to them to sit while he would stand. Fr. Thomas had to threaten that he would go back to his room if they refused to sit before they sat down. 
“So what do I offer you?” Fr. Thomas asked.
“Nothing Father.” Mrs. Veronica said quickly. “We are okay Father.”
“But we have gruel; you will love this one. Let me call Alfred to bring it to you. Alfred.” He called.
“No Father, we won’t take anything; we are fine.” Mrs. Agatha said.
“But gruel is not food; it is just a soft drink, though a local one.” He laughed. “You will like this one. Our cook took her time to prepare it and it is nice.”
“Thank you Father; it is too early to drink anything.” Mrs. Veronica said.
“You mean 7:30 am is too early?” Fr. Thomas laughed.
“We usually eat when we are on the farm.” Mrs. Monica said. 
“Okay, since you have chosen to refuse my offer, no problem.” Fr. Thomas said.
“No Father, we don’t mean to offend you; it is just that we don't want to drink gruel now.” Mrs. Veronica said.
“If you don't want to drink, does it mean that everybody doesn't want too, or you have planned that you won’t accept anything I offer you before you came here.”
“No Father; we didn’t plan anything Father.” Mrs. Cecilia said. 
“Now that you have spoken, you have confirmed that you planned everything.” Fr. Thomas laughed. 
“No Father.” They all said.
“Okay, I give up!” He raised his hands. “So, to what do I owe this visit?”
“Father, we are sisters and …” Mrs. Monica said.
“You want to tell me that you are all sister?” Fr. Thomas interrupted in amazement because they all seemed to be the same age. 
“Yes, the same father and mother, I am the second; our elder brother died four years ago, Veronica is the third, Cecilia is the fourth and then Agatha.” Monica said.
“Wow, so you are the eldest and you look younger than all of them.”
“That is what people always say, but I don’t see it like that.” Monica laughed.
“Are your parents still alive?”
“Our father died thirty years ago, but our mother is still alive but very sick.” Veronica said.
“Your mother is sick?” Fr. Thomas empathized with them. “What is wrong with her?”
“She has been diabetic for a while now; and now she is down with stroke.” Monica said.
“Oh God, this is serious.” Fr. Thomas shook his head. “So have you taken her to the hospital?”
“Where is the money Father? We don’t have the money to take her to the hospital.” Cecilia said.
“Then, how have you been treating her?”
“Father, we have tried local herbs, but now it is not working. We don’t have the money to take her to the hospital that is why we have come to the parish to seek assistance.” Monica said.
“You don’t have relatives that can help?”
“We are all peasant farmers; our relatives and children can hardly contribute anything tangible.” Veronica said.
“Wow” Fr. Thomas shook his head. He understood that they intended to appeal to him to give them money; this implied that he would be their last hope. The only money he had on him was five hundred naira. It was a poor parish and the daily collection was below one hundred naira except for the Sunday collection that was within the range of three to four thousand naira; which was both the main parish collection and that of the outstations. However, anytime there was rainfall on Sunday, the collection would be as low as one thousand naira. He was ashamed to tell them that he didn’t have money. “When do you want to take Mama to the hospital?”
“If we can raise some money, we would take her to the hospital today.” Monica said.
“Okay, please you should give me a minute.” Fr. Thomas went to his room and closed his door. He placed his head on his door and wept. He felt embarrassed that he had nothing tangible on him to give to them. He would have gone to meet Fr. Raymond to give him some money but Fr. Raymond traveled. If they had come on Sunday or Monday, he would have given them his weekly allowance which was one thousand five hundred naira. They came on Friday when he had almost exhausted the money on him. He decided to borrow money from Alfred. 
“Alfred!” He called and Alfred answered. He was rearranging the food items in the store. 
“Alfred, do you have any money on you that you can borrow me?”
“Like how much Father?”
“Can you give me ten thousand naira?”
“Father, the only money I have is one thousand three hundred naira.”
“Goodness! And you asked me how much as if you have up to one million naira? Alfred, you haven’t solved my problem at all.  What will I tell these women now? Alfred, how will it sound if these women tell people that Father gave them five hundred naira when they came to ask me for assistance?”
“At least, they will know you tried.” 
“With five hundred naira? Alfred, what have you been smoking that I don’t know?”
“Father I don’t smoke!” Alfred laughed.
“Then what might have influenced you to say that?” Fr. Thomas laughed as he shook his head. “You will have to borrow me that one thousand three hundred naira.”
“Father, all of them?”
“Yea, and I wish you have more to add. Come closer let’s rub minds, do you have any friend that can borrow me something tangible?”
“No Father, my friends are even looking for money from me.”
“You don’t mean it!” Fr. Thomas opened his eyes. “Then, it is high time you changed your circle of friends. There is no way you can grow with such friends. My God, I need a miracle; what do I do now?”
“Although, I have one eleven thousand naira that is meant for the altar boys’ association in the room.”
“Then what are you waiting for? So you have this kind of money in your possession and you made me go through this terrible test? You sure have to come for confession for tempting me to sin.” He joked.
“Father, do you need the money now?”
“My God, what do I do with this boy? Yes, Alfred; I need the money like right now.”  Fr. Thomas laughed and felt relieved as he watched Alfred walked to his room to get the money. 
Fr. Thomas was quick to stop the women when they wanted to kneel to express their appreciation because he gave them twelve thousand naira. Monica cried as she blessed Fr. Thomas since they had asked everyone they knew for assistance and were unable to raise anything. Fr. Thomas assured them that he would visit their mother in the hospital later in the day. He was fulfilled that he could help them, but he knew that he had incurred some debt. He would have to look forward to a miracle to pay the debt.
CHAPTER TEN
Fr. Thomas had worked in Saint Patrick’s mission for three years. He saw it as growth when he received his posting to be the priest in charge of Saint Juliana’s mission. Even though it was a new mission, he accepted the posting as a growth in which the church had seen him worthy to be elevated to the status of a priest in charge of a mission. He was relieved that the mission was close to the road therefore the community had electricity supply and good network service. 
He had always been uncomfortable when the parishioners came to the parish house for counseling sessions, so he cleaned the store and transformed it into his temporary office. He always sat in the office from 8:00 am to 12:00 pm and 4:00 pm to 6:00 pm. The parishioners who were initially unfamiliar with the routine became used to it as time progressed. 
Fr. Thomas was perplexed when a lady entered his office shedding tears. He would have loved to stand up and comfort her, but he comported himself and appealed to the lady to sit. The lady cried louder seeing Fr. Thomas. Fr. Thomas removed his handkerchief from his pocket and gave it to her to wipe her face. The lady continued to shed tears while she wiped her face. Fr. Thomas refused to utter a word while she cried. He gave her space and time to express her grieve. The lady stopped crying after ten minutes. She closed her eyes for five seconds and sighed deeply. As she opened her eyes, tears ran down her cheeks. Fr. Thomas felt sorry for her.  
“Good morning Father.” She sobbed.
“Good morning my sister; you have to be strong my sister because there is nothing God cannot resolve.”
“Father, this one is too much for me.”
“Not for God to resolve; you just have to trust and believe God.”
“Father, I am pregnant.”
“Okay, that is not something to bother about; children are a gift from God.” 
“Not this one Father; I am not married.”
“Even at that my sister; you will accept with me that many people are looking for children and anybody given a child is a blessing from God.”
“But Father, the person responsible for the pregnancy is denying it.”
“Why will he deny it?”
“He accused me that I am sleeping with other men; that he is not the only one I am going out with; that I am forcing a child that belongs to another man on him.”
“Do you have another boyfriend?” Fr. Thomas spoke in a calm voice as he wanted to be prudent. 
“No Father; he is my only boyfriend.”
“Don’t worry, he would come to his senses and take responsibility for the child.”
“He said I should abort the child.”
“He said that?” Fr. Thomas widened his eyes in amazement. 
“Yes, he said he has nothing to do with the pregnancy; that I should terminate the pregnancy because he is not ready for marriage now.”
“Don’t be bothered about his careless words; I believe the news of your pregnancy came to him as a shock; give him time, he would come to his right senses and accept the pregnancy. At the moment, he is ruled by fear, but he will get over it.”
“Father, he keeps insisting that I should abort the baby and I am afraid.”
“Who rejects God’s gift? Nobody my sister. No matter how it comes, children are a gift from God. The church preaches against abortion and it is morally wrong to kill. Do you want to kill an innocent child?”
“No Father, but it is the only option that I have? I don’t want people to laugh at me that I gave birth to a child out of wedlock.”
“If you care about what people say, you won’t do anything meaningful in your life my sister; people talk about everything under the sun and if you bother about what they say, you will never be productive and achieve anything great.”
“Father, there is nothing meaningful been pregnant out of wedlock.”
“There is; people will admire you for the courage to be willing to keep the child. Only a strong and responsible woman would do that. What you will do is to pray for the man that is responsible to come to his sense and take responsibility for the child.”
“Father, what do I do now?”
“You have to be prayerful and believe that God will take care of you and the baby; don’t allow the devil to deceive you and make you believe that aborting the child is the best option. All these things happening are just temptation by the evil one to make you sin. But as a child of God resist the temptation and stand firm in prayers.”
“But Father, everybody will be disappointed in me, even my parents; I am my parents’ first daughter and my siblings look up to me.” 
“All you will do is to pray and trust in God that the man who is responsible for your pregnancy will come and ask for your hand in marriage before the pregnancy comes out. I will also join you in prayers. God doesn’t fail his children.”
“I will be prayerful, Father.”
“Sorry sister, sorry, what is your name?”
“My name is Augusta, Father.”
“Okay, Augusta, this is the time that you have to be more prayerful; and I assure you that God will make everything work out as you wish. The man responsible will come and ask for your hand in marriage and you will live a happily married life with your child. This child will grow up to become a great person; he or she might even become a leader or the president. So this child that you are carrying will be a blessing to your life which is why you shouldn’t allow the devil lure you to sin and make you believe that aborting the child is the best thing to do.”
“Thank you very much Father for your time.”
“You are welcome anytime. Let’s pray.” Fr. Thomas stretched his hands and held hers. He blessed her after the prayers and Augusta left his office. He felt sorry for Augusta and shook his head as he saw the deceit in a relationship outside marriage. 
Fr. Thomas came out of the church on Saturday morning after he finished morning Mass and recited his morning prayers. He was perplexed when he saw a middle-aged woman shedding tears. She was supported by a man who seemed to be her husband and they walked towards Fr. Thomas. They told him that their daughter was seriously ill and they would love him to pray for her. Fr. Thomas rushed to the house and picked his car keys. He told them to enter the car and he drove to the hospital where the girl was admitted.
Fr. Thomas followed them to the ward where she was admitted. The lady looked tin and shrunken. Her cheeks entered inside and her eyeballs seemed protruded. Her lips were pale and her clavicle bone was visible. She kept complaining that she was thirsty. She was indeed a pathetic sight. Her mother kept crying. Fr. Thomas had to control himself not to be emotional. Fr. Thomas removed his pocket ritual and his pyx.
“Is she baptized?”
“Yes, Father; she is baptized.” Her mother said.
“Okay, then I believe she is a communicant.”
“Yes, Father.” Her father said.
“What is her name?”
“Augusta, Father; her name is Augusta.” Her mother said.
“Augusta, you said?” Fr. Thomas was amazed and Augusta opened her eyes as she heard Fr. Thomas called her name.
“Yes, Father.” Her mother said.
Augusta looked pathetic and remorseful as she looked at Fr. Thomas. Tears ran down her dried cheeks.
“Please Augusta, don’t cry; everything is going to be fine.” Fr. Thomas reassured her and forced a smile from his face. He suspected that she might have tried to abort the baby which must have led to complications. He performed the sacrament of the anointing of the sick and assured her that she would be fine. He stayed with her in the hospital for thirty minutes and assured them that he would visit them later in the evening when he was leaving. 
He was troubled all through the day as he felt he failed to do enough to convince Augusta not to do the abortion when she came to his office a month ago. He went to the chapel at noon; he recited the Angelus, prayed the rosary, and recited the psalms for God to deliver her from her predicament. He came out of the chapel and stood under the mango tree in front of the parish to listen and identify where somebody was screaming. The voice was approaching the church and he waited to see the person. The person diverted to a road opposite the church gate so he was unable to see the woman that screamed. He entered his room to rest and he slept off. He was surprised that he slept longer than he expected as he woke up 4:00 pm. He chose to rush to the hospital to check on Augusta before he would go to the church to listen to the parishioners’ confession. He opened the door and came out of the parish house.
He was surprised to see Augusta’s father waiting for him outside. Seeing his sad countenance, Fr. Thomas knew that something was wrong. He was sad when Augusta’s father informed him that Augusta died shortly after he left the hospital. He went inside and wept as he felt he would have done more to prevent her from attempting the abortion. He was unable to sleep all through the night as he felt sorry for Augusta and her family. He prayed for the repose of her soul. 
Fr. Thomas celebrated the requiem Mass for Augusta three days after her death and she was buried afterwards. He left her burial ceremony sad after performing the last rite.
CHAPTER ELEVEN
Fr. Thomas was always bothered anytime he heard Mrs. Agnes’ confession who was the Chairlady of the Christian Women’s Organisation. Her husband Mr. Dominic was the church leader and he was a pious parishioner. Mrs. Agnes always confessed that she committed adultery and even when Fr. Thomas advised her to desist from the sin and gave her penance to atone for her sins, she always repeated the sin of adultery. Fr. Thomas was sad anytime he saw her husband who was upright and always praying in the church premises. 
Fr. Thomas buried Mr. Dominic’s first son Raphael who suffered a brief headache before he passed on. Mr. Dominic’s extended family members were aggrieved and confused about Raphael’s sudden death, thus they sought answers. They went to the shrine to investigate the cause of his death. After consulting the oracle, they found out that the death was due to the act of adultery committed by Mrs. Agnes. 
Mr. Dominic was invited by his family members as they complained that his wife committed adultery and she would have to perform some cleansing to appease the spirits. The people had a tradition that frowned at women committing adultery. The repercussion for having an adulterous wife was the death of her husband if her husband was aware of it and continued to eat her food. Nevertheless, if the husband was unaware of it, the spirits would kill her first male child before killing her husband. 
Mr. Dominic refused to believe what his extended family members said because he knew that they had been against his marriage to Agnes since he introduced her to them as his wife. He felt that they would look for any means to accuse her to make him divorce her. Mrs. Agnes denied the allegation as she cried that they wanted to tarnish her image. Mr. Dominic believed her and dismissed the elders’ claim. He angrily left their premises with Mrs. Agnes. He felt that what they did was a fetish practice and he would not be part of any fetish practice since he was a Christian. He refused to listen to his mother who pleaded that Mrs. Agnes should just undergo the cleansing even though she refused to admit that she committed adultery. 
Fr. Thomas was in his office when Mr. Dominic knocked on his door. He answered and Mr. Dominic entered the office with a sad countenance. He thought that Mr. Dominic was sad because his son was just buried. He offered Mr. Dominic a sit. 
“Please, take heart my brother; God knows the best and we continue to pray that God should give you and your family the fortitude to bear the lost.”
“Thank you very much Father; you have been kind and supportive to us all through our trying times.”
“If I don’t support you at this time, when will I support you again; please be strong for your family.”
“Thank you, Father.”
“How is everybody at home; and how is your wife?”
He hissed. “They are fine.”
“Hope all is well?” Fr. Thomas asked as he saw the reaction on his face.
“Father, I don’t know why my extended family wouldn’t leave my wife alone; do you know that those fetish and diabolic people are accusing my wife as the cause of Raphael’s death?”
“Why would they say that?”
“They said that the spirits killed Raphael because she committed adultery.”
“What? Do such practices and doctrines still exist with the extent Christianity has penetrated everywhere?”
“Yes, people still practice all these fetish things and my extended family members will practice it until tomorrow. They always look for somebody to blame when something bad happens; now their eyes are on my wife.”
“This is not good.” Fr. Thomas shook his head as he knew the implication.
“Can you imagine the embarrassment?”
“So what did your wife say?”
“What will she say when all their allegations are false! I trust my wife very well. She can’t commit adultery. They are the ones that killed my son and they are trying to shift blames.”
“This is not good at all.” Fr. Thomas hissed; he understood that since he had been told that his wife committed adultery, he was supposed to send her away from the house until she would do the cleansing or avoid eating her food; else he would be killed by the spirits. 
Fr. Thomas was unwilling to break the seal of confession even though Mr. Dominic’s life was at stake. He was unable to inform him that his wife was guilty of adultery. He told him that he should be prayerful and asked that he should tell his wife to come and see him. 
Mrs. Agnes refused to go and visit Fr. Thomas and kept dodging him. She stopped going to church on Sunday as she always claimed that she was sick. Fr. Thomas always asked Mr. Dominic about his wife whenever he saw him in the church. He understood that she was dodging him when Mr. Dominic informed him that she was sick. Nevertheless, he decided to forget about the issue since Mr. Dominic was hay and hearty. 
He was driving to one of the outstations and he met Mrs. Agnes on her way to the farm. He stopped beside her and greeted her. Mrs. Agnes curtsied as she greeted him. He appealed to her to enter the car for a brief discussion. Mrs. Agnes entered the car. 
“How is your family?” He asked.
“They are fine Father.”
“I have been told that you are sick; sorry, I have been unable to come to the house and check you. How are you now?”
“I am better now Father.”
“Of course, you are; else you won’t be going to farm this agile. Are you still on medication?”
“No Father, I have finished my drugs.”
“Okay, I don’t mean to meddle into your family affairs, but your husband complained that his extended family members accused you of adultery.”
“Yes Father, that is how they are; they are full of hatred for me. They are looking for every means to tear my family apart but God wouldn’t allow that.”
“Amen; but have you ever committed adultery?”
“No Father, I have never committed adultery.”
“You understand the implication of what your husband’s family is saying, don’t you?”
“I do Father.”
“I want you to confide in me because your husband’s life is at stake; did you commit adultery?”
“It was a mistake Father and it was one time and after then I didn’t do it again.” 
Fr. Thomas knew that she lied because she always confessed that she committed adultery. “I would advise that you tell your husband about it.”
“I can’t Father; how will he look at me?”
“I will talk to him as well.”
“Tell him that I committed adultery?” She was scared.
“No, I won’t do that; I am saying that if you should tell him that you committed adultery, I will appeal to him to forgive you.”
“Father, I don’t think I can do that because my reputation will be at stake; I will become a laughing stock in the community. Father, I can’t face such shame.”
“But do you want your husband to die?”
“Father, I am surprised that you believe this their fetish nonsense; Father, nothing will happen to my husband. God won’t allow it.”
“But your husband deserves to know.”
“Okay Father, I will think about it.”
“Please do, as we keep praying.”
Fr. Thomas was fulfilled as he drove off after she came down from the car. 
He was perplexed as Mr. Dominic remained calm and tempered while coming to the church. Fr. Thomas presumed that he had forgiven her and decided to forget about the issue. He wouldn’t want to ignite the issue anymore so he was quiet. 
Fr. Thomas was meditating as he walked around the parish house in the evening. He was surprised when he saw Agatha Mr. Dominic’s second daughter running towards the parish house. She spoke to Alfred who stood in front of the parish house. Alfred waited for Fr. Thomas to finish his meditation and he informed him that Mr. Dominic was ill and unable to move his neck. He shook his head as he knew that the spirits had struck him. He prayed that it wasn’t too late. He rushed to Mr. Dominic’s house. He wished he could strangle Mrs. Agnes when he saw her crying because she was the cause of Mr. Dominic’s predicament.
“Yes, I committed adultery.” She kept saying as she cried. 
Fr. Thomas prayed for Mr. Dominic and left the house sad. The extended family members tried to perform the cleansing rite since Mrs. Agnes had accepted that she committed adultery, but it was too late because Mr. Dominic’s neck had already been twisted by the spirits. Mr. Dominic died after two days.  
Fr. Thomas was sad when he heard of Mr. Dominic’s death. He was angry with everybody and everything. He wished he had the opportunity to break the seal of confession. He would have saved the life of Dominic who was an innocent man.
CHAPTER TWELVE
Beelzebub had been troubled since he was cast down to hell. He was unable to speak proudly in the presence of other demons. Demons teased him for being humiliated by a common priest. He had been bent on collaborating with Succubus. Baal the snake demon had always been supportive as he encouraged Beelzebub to be optimistic and believe that Succubus would make Fr. Thomas sin which would remove the graces of God from him.
“Where the hell is Succubus? Won’t he come home anymore?” Beelzebub lamented.
“Home!” Baal sounded amazed. “Where exactly do you call home?” 
“Where else, if not this godforsaken dungeon?”
“That is why Succubus would be a lame fool to come back willingly; here, is no home. I would rather call here a prison.” Baal shook his head. “Oh, I miss earth; I miss the worship, the sacrifice, everything. I wish I can turn back the hands of time.”
“Please, don’t remind me of my misery.” Beelzebub sighed. “I miss it too.” 
“I thought you will never say that!” Baal laughed.
“Everybody will say that; even the devil himself, because this place is disgusting, despicable, empty; oh gosh, I so much hate this place that I wish I can repent.”
“You have that thought too?”
“Yeah baby; I always regret that we chose the wrong side.”
“That is a part of my story I wish I can rewrite because it always hurts me when I remember it.”
“You are lucky that you have to remember, which implies that you forget about it at times; but as for me, the memory of our divine fall always reflects inside my head and it torments me every passing second; even when I put up some shows to forget it.”
“Mine is the same and I have realized that nothing we do can compensate for our mistakes.”
“Don’t be too quick to conclude. As I told you; I have a plan.”
“You mean the blackmailing plan?”
“Yea baby; that is what I’m talking about! Please, how can we get Succubus?”
“We should hope that he meets the wrong guy soon.”
“I don’t understand.”
“He will only come to hell when he encounters a supreme power that can suppress him and send him to hell.”
“Then what are all these men of God waiting for that they haven’t approached him because I don’t think he is as powerful as I am; yet I am cast down to this filthy, repulsive and damned place.”
“When will you stop being proud?”
“Perhaps, that will be when I stop being me!” 
“Please, when we see Succubus, make him believe that we have faith in him; if there is any way you can stop being boastful around him, it will be helpful.”
“That would be a hard nut to crack; anyway, that doesn’t mean I won’t go out of my way to try my best; but I believe you understand if I say I can’t totally assure you of not being boastful. It is who I am and there is nothing I can do about it.”
“Then, there will be no use for Succubus.”
“Says who?”
“From what you have said; it means you are not ready to talk terms with Succubus.”
“Wait, let’s get one thing straight; is Succubus’ first mission to humiliate me because all these talks about me being boastful, how does that relate with the mission?”
“It is necessary; Succubus has to see that we deserve his help.”
“Really! Who the hell is Succubus that I will have to stoop low for him! If he thinks I will need him forever; then he lied big time; I will discard him as soon as he is done. I wouldn’t even allow a second to pass before I do that.”
“Do you know I can hear you?”
“Yea, I thought as much! Else why will your face resemble a misplace shit!” Beelzebub laughed. “So what is the way forward.”
“I have given up!”
“What! You can’t give up when we haven’t begun anything; you only give up when I say so.” Beelzebub tried to joke. “Please be serious I don’t have the patience.”
“Then you have to stop this nasty and annoying attitude of yours!”
“Even though I feel insulted, I think I will try my best for the greater good!” Beelzebub paused. “So, you are telling me that Succubus has never been cast down to hell? Wow, this is indeed an unbeaten record.”
“No, he has.”
“Yes! What a relief! Because I am already feeling unaccomplished.” He saw the countenance on Baal’s face as he reminded him of his resolution not to be proud. “Oh, it is just reflex; you can’t control it at times, you know!” Beelzebub laughed.
“Demons like Succubus are always needed on earth so whenever he is cast down, he returns almost immediately.” 
“Wow, I see! Lust is one sin humans hardly escape from, except you are a saint.”
“The good news is – everybody is a sinner and even God acknowledged that the most righteous man sins seven times a day and lust makes all the seven sins before others fall behind. You see why Succubus can’t stay here?”
“So how do we track him?”
“We just have to be observant and watchful…” Baal didn’t complete his statement before they heard someone screaming as he fell. Baal looked and it was Succubus.
“Damn it; I hate this degrading part of my existence!” Succubus screamed and they laughed. 
“Welcome on board mate!” Baal said.
“Not me, I’m on my way out of this shithole already.” 
“Please Succubus, give us a minute, we would like to talk to you.” Baal said.
“When you say ‘we’ who else is involved?”
“Beelzebub.”
“You mean Beelzebub is here?” Succubus looked amazed.
“Yes, he is here.”
“Tell me, hope it is not what I’m thinking?”
“I hate to break it to you, but his wings have been tamed by a common priest.”
“I can hear you!” Beelzebub said.
“Oh, I forgot that you are here.” Baal intentionally wanted to tease Beelzebub.
“I said I underestimated the priest that is why he got me.”
“Nobody ever sees it coming; these anointed men of God often take us unawares.” Succubus said. “Beelzebub, I am sorry that you have been reduced to this level; and I almost concluded that you are the best; I have always been proud of you as the undefeated demon.”
“Sorry, not anymore! He has been humiliated.” Baal laughed.
“I am only completely defeated when I give up on myself; I am still the best!” 
“Impressive; that is the spirit of a champion; but for the record, you still have to make me believe in you again.” Succubus said.
“Of course, I will; only a matter of time baby; only a matter of time.” Beelzebub said.
“Succubus, I want you to seduce a priest by name Fr. Thomas.” 
“Fr. Thomas?” Succubus paused for two seconds. “The name doesn’t ring a bell; how come I missed him all these while.”
“Maybe, he is focused and prayerful which must have shielded him from you.” Beelzebub said.
“Is that the kind of person you want me to confront?” Succubus sounded frightened as he saw that Fr. Thomas had defeated Beelzebub.
“He is not as harmful as Beelzebub said; C’mon Succubus, you have defeated great men like Solomon, David, Samson, name them; a common priest won’t be a difficult task for you, will it?”
“Let me see,” Succubus paused. “Does this priest have a portfolio? Give me a breakdown of his profile.”
“I am afraid he has a resounding portfolio because the likes of Beelzebub and me are here because of him.”
“I said I underestimated him!” Beelzebub said. 
“Wow, then I will have to step up my game when it comes to him.”
“Baby, that is just the right statement we have been waiting for!” Baal laughed.
“But what is in it for me?”
“We would consider you in our plan to entice God with souls so that we would get our glory back.” Beelzebub said.
“How is that possible?” Succubus was amazed.
“Fulfill your part of the bargain and you will know it is possible.” Beelzebub said.
“If you say so, then I believe you.” Succubus said. “Consider Fr. Thomas a fallen priest.”
“We can’t wait!” They said.
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
Succubus promised Beelzebub and Baal that he would make Fr. Thomas fall. He intended to manipulate the mind of Fr. Thomas and play on his emotions before he would tempt him physically. He tried to influence him in his dreams.
Fr. Thomas slept after he concluded his night prayers. He was tired and too weak to walk to the bathroom to take his bath. So, he lay on the bed with the clothes he wore all through the day. 
Fr. Thomas sat in the parlour reading the bible. He heard a knock on his door and he answered. A lady walked inside. She was fair in complexion with a mini-skirt and wore a sleeveless that exposed her cleavages. Fr. Thomas was amazed as he saw the lady.  She failed to dress modestly to the church when she had the intention to see him. He could predict that she had the intention to seduce him. 
The lady walked seductively towards him as she gazed at him. Fr. Thomas was perplexed and adjusted himself on the seat. The lady stopped three meters away from him smiling. She seductively rubbed her hands on her body. She took off her shirt and skirt. Fr. Thomas seemed confused as he stared at her. She took a step towards Fr. Thomas and Fr. Thomas shouted Jesus and woke up. He was relieved that it was a dream. He looked at the wall clock and saw that the time was 12:45 am. He took a deep breath as he stood up from the bed. He removed his rosary from his pocket. He knelt and recited five decades of the rosary. He went to the bathroom and took his bath. 
As he lay on the bed, he remembered the face of the lady in his dream as if it happened in reality. He slept off after ten minutes. 
He went for a priestly retreat and they lodged in a pastoral center. After the evening programme and night prayers, he was exhausted as he walked towards his room. He opened the door and was surprised that there was a party going on inside his room. He saw people drinking beer and dancing to the beat of the music that played in the background. He looked to the left and saw a naked stripper. He was in a strip club. A naked lady ushered him a seat close to the stripper. The stripper looked at him as she danced erotically on the pole. She seductively walked towards him and he shouted ‘Jesus’ as he woke up. 
“My God, what is this?” He said as he wiped his face. He saw that the time was 4:50 am as he picked his phone from the side table. He rushed to the bathroom to take his bath because the exposition of the Blessed Sacrament was supposed to be 5:30 am. While he was in the bathroom, the image of the naked ladies in his dreams disturbed him. He was uncomfortable. He was distressed all through the morning Mass and while he sat in the office. 
He decided to go to the chapel and pray to resist the temptation that aroused a lustful desire in him. Succubus ensured that he kept presenting the image of the naked lady in his mind while he prayed. Beelzebub and Baal were impressed with Succubus as they saw how distressed Fr. Thomas looked. 
“I underestimate Succubus!” Beelzebub laughed.
“I bet you do; he is going to possess his mind and make him commit fornication that will remove the grace of God from him and make him vulnerable.”  Baal nodded.
“I just can’t wait to torment him when he is weak; he will suffer to have humiliated me.”
“So now, you have accepted that he humiliated you, haven’t you?”
“That is because I underestimated him.”
“Let’s hope that Succubus succeeds.”
Fr. Thomas was unable to focus when he prayed his rosary. He finished praying twenty decades and opened his bible to read some verses, yet he was troubled by lustful desires as the image of the naked girl tormented him. He dropped the bible and stared at the monstrance for ten minutes before leaving the chapel. He went to the office to attend to parishioners who were waiting for him. 
The image of the naked girl troubled his mind as he attended to the parishioners who came to his office for counseling sessions. Seeing that there was nobody that wanted to see him, he decided to go to the parish house to rest. After all, the time was 11.45 am. He heard a knock at the door when he stood up from his chair. He was reluctant to answer because he was already on his way out of the office. A fair lady walked inside the office. The lady had the same height and figure as the one he saw in his dream. He stared at the lady lustfully as she walked towards the table. 
“Good morning Father.” She greeted.
“Good morning sister.” Fr. Thomas stared at her. She stood for fifteen seconds before Fr. Thomas regained himself and realized that he hadn’t asked her to sit down. “Please sit down.”
“Thank you, Father.” She said as she sat down.
“I have never come across you in this parish before; are you a parishioner here?”
“Not yet Father; we just relocated to the village from Abuja last week.”
“Wow, you mean your parents?”
“Yes Father, my dad retired from the Air Force and chose to relocate to the village because the only place he has a house in this village.”
“I can see that someone is not happy about coming to the village with her parents.”
“Father, I am not happy at all; this place is a bush and it is boring out here.”
“Don’t be too fast to conclude. I assure you that there is much more fun here than you can imagine. Wait until you start making friends.”
“Then I can’t wait to find these friends.”
“Don’t worry, they will find you before you find them.”
“I hope so.” She laughed. “At least, I have found the first one.”
“Oh, you have found one already and you still complain that you are bored? So, who is that lucky person?”
“I don’t think I will be bored after today because you are the friend I found.”
“I didn’t know I am your friend already because I am just seeing you for the first time.”
“Friendship begins one day and ours has just begun.”
“Is that it? Anyway, as a priest, I am a friend to everybody…”
“Not our kind of friendship because ours will be special friendship.” She interrupted. 
“Now, I am scared!” Fr. Thomas joked.
“You don’t have to Father.”
“Sorry, I didn’t get your name.”
“My name is Priscilla, Father.”
“Okay, I am Fr. Thomas.”
“I already know your name, Father.”
“Of course, so Priscilla, do you have anything that you still wish to discuss?”
“No Father, except that I will say you are a kind person and it is a pleasure to meet you.”
“The pleasure is all mine; I must say you are a lively person.”
“Thank you, Father.”  
“Sorry, I would have to go inside now because I am tired and I wish to rest.”
“Yes, I can see the tiredness in your eyes.”
“Is it that obvious?”
“Not at all, except that your eyes are dull.”
“It is because I could barely sleep; anyway, if I should rest for a while I think I will be better.”
“Sorry, Father.”
“Thank you.”
Fr. Thomas and Priscilla walked out of the office. He turned to lock the door with the key. He expected that Priscilla would leave before he would finish with the door. He was amazed that Priscilla waited for him when he turned. 
“You are still here?”
“Yes Father, I want to accompany you to the house before I leave.”
“But the parish house is just here; don’t worry.”
“Please Father don’t deny me the privilege.”
“You call walking with my miserable self a privilege? I am rather honoured.” Fr. Thomas joked.
While they walked to the parish house, Fr. Thomas listened to her as she narrated her experiences in Abuja. She told him about the attitude of the people in the barracks, her school, and her friends. Fr. Thomas seemed to enjoy her company as she spoke with excitement. He tried to ignore the lustful feeling even though the image of the naked lady in his dream disturbed him. He wished he could avoid Priscilla’s touch while she spoke as she always touched him. He had to politely interrupt Priscilla as he appealed to her that he was tired and would like to rest before Priscilla reluctantly accepted to leave. 
“Wow, I think I underestimated this lady!” Succubus exclaimed. “She’s got more flows than I imagined.”
“Were you not the one that motivated her?” Baal laughed.
“I would have loved to take the glory, but this lady has got it in her already; I am myself amazed.”
“Succubus, I hate to be the one to say this, but you are good at your job.” Beelzebub said.
“Say that again baby!” Succubus laughed.
“You are a perfect matchmaker.”
“I’m telling you!” Baal laughed. “Where on earth did you find this lady?”
“The one thing I have learned over the years is to manipulate coincidence to work in my favour.” 
 Fr. Thomas looked back as he walked to his door and his eyes met Priscilla as she also looked back. Priscilla smiled, but Fr. Thomas quickly turned his face. “Jesus, what is happening to me?” He whispered.
“Love baby, it is called falling in lust!” Succubus laughed.
“That’s what I’m talking about!” Beelzebub laughed. “Succubus, you are the best.” 
“You can say that again; it is what I do for a living.”
“All I see in Fr. Thomas now is a fallen priest; I see no escape in this.” Baal laughed. 
“None at all, he can’t resist this temptation.” Beelzebub laughed. “This one will take him unawares.”
“Yea, you saw that connection when their eyes met, didn’t you? That is a sign that we will be victorious.” Succubus said.
“Really; what does the sign mean?”
“Baal, you never cease to amaze me, if you don’t understand the simple sign that shows that two people are falling in love, what else do you understand?” Beelzebub said.
“Am I missing something? I am Baal the deadly and not a lover.”
“Tell your confused worshippers that because the last time I checked I don’t give a damn.” 
“When will both of you understand each other?”
“Never! Baal is a bad and weak influence!” Beelzebub said.
“Seriously; is there anything bad in being a bad influence? Are we not supposed to be the bad guys? So thank you Moron, for your compliment.” 
“This is why I blame myself for reducing myself to collaborate with you.” 
“Please, let’s focus on our mission here. I will manipulate him to fall in love and before he realizes that he is under attack, he must have fallen.”
“I believe in you!” Beelzebub laughed. “I can’t wait for him to fall so that I can take my revenge; my revenge will be served super cold.”
CHAPTER FOURTEEN
Fr. Thomas lay on the bed smiling as he recalled his conversation with Priscilla. He admired her countenance and confidence. He remembered the naked ladies in his dream and he was tempted to imagine Priscilla being naked on the bed beside him. He quickly tried to dismiss the thought as he did the sign of the cross and recited the Lord’s prayer. He took a deep breath and stood up. He picked a spiritual book from the shelve titled ‘The Priest Is Not His Own’ by Fulton J. Sheen and sat on the bed to read the book. He flipped through the book but seemed to be unwilling to read the book as the thought of Priscilla preoccupied his mind. He dropped the book on the bed and went out of the room. He chose to walk around the parish vicinity to see if he could overcome the lustful thought. 
He took a deep breath and wished he could go back to his room when he came out and saw Priscilla entering the church compound. Priscilla smiled as she spotted him. Fr. Thomas felt weak as he was unable to go back to the room seeing that Priscilla had seen him. 
“Good afternoon Father.”
“Good afternoon Priscilla.”
“I came just in time.” She smiled. 
“Not really because I was about going to the chapel before I saw you.”
“That won’t be a problem; I can wait until you are done.”
“You don’t have to wait for me; you can go and do what you came to the church for.” Fr. Thomas saw that she was unwilling. “I don’t think your intention for coming to the church is to come and see me, is it?”
“I actually came to the church to see you; I was bored at home and there was no interesting person to talk to.”
“You can’t be sure of that because there are interesting people everywhere.”
“If there are, then not in this village; you are the only interesting person I can see.”
“It is because you have conditioned your mind to think like that. Even though you are more exposed than people here, you can still find those of them you can discuss with. Most of them have gone to higher institutions in the town and are exposed, so anything you want to talk about, you will be surprised that they have full knowledge of it. So don’t write them off just like that.”
“Father, not that I am writing them off, but I am not disposed to make any friend right now.”
“Okay, it is your choice.”
“So Father, I am going to wait for you outside.”
“Are you not going to pray?”
“I am going to pray later.”
“Later! Why not now? You are procrastinating prayers, aren’t you?”
“Just that I am not disposed to pray now.”
“Okay, so you are not among those that pray without ceasing then.”
“Father, I pray in my mind without ceasing.”
“Even though you pray in your mind without ceasing, I would prefer the physical one; the one I can see.”
 “But, Father that would be hypocrisy.”
“Leave it to us to decide that and not you; else you won’t do anything religious.” 
“Let me think about it Father.”
“So, are you going to do the thinking inside the chapel?”
“I will do it while waiting for you outside.”
“If you say so, but I will have to go for hospital visitation when I come out of the chapel.”
“I will accompany you.”
“When you don’t know when I will come back from the hospital?”
“I am not doing anything so I have all the time Father.”
“Okay.” Fr. Thomas smiled as he walked to the chapel. 
He tried to be focused as he prayed the rosary and read the bible in the chapel. He looked at the window intermittently and admired Priscilla who sat on a stone under the tree as she waited for Fr. Thomas. 
Fr. Thomas felt unease when he saw a male parishioner conversing with Priscilla. He was distracted as he wondered what they might be discussing that they had stayed together for more than ten minutes. He became uninterested in the prayers and kept looking outside as he wished that the boy should leave. He was disturbed that Priscilla enjoyed the boy’s company as he could hear her laughter from the chapel. “My God, what is happening to me?” He whispered.
“Feel free baby, you are in love and it’s a beautiful thing.” Succubus laughed.
“Who says it isn’t? Love makes the world go round.” Baal laughed.
“You can say that again baby!” Beelzebub laughed. 
“When they say there is another force greater than gravitation force, I now believe.”  Baal laughed.
“I should say Congratulation baby; welcome to reality!” Succubus said.
“How have the mighty fallen; do you see that he doesn’t even have the interest to pray anymore?” Beelzebub said.
“That is why it is called mad love; when you feel it, nothing else matters.” Succubus laughed. “He hasn’t felt the full package yet.”
“What package is that?” Baal asked.
“Distress caused by jealousy.” Succubus laughed. “This is just an introduction to distress 101.”
“I’m so much loving this; I can’t wait for the 102!” Beelzebub said. 
“Brace yourself baby for the show has just begun.”
“Can I torment him a little, like pinch his buttock?” 
“That will be a dangerous move because he still has the grace of God in abundance; the only thing that can take that grace from him is when he fornicates, he would become vulnerable; then you can strike all you want and you will see him trembling like a baby exposed to winter.”
“Nevertheless, Beelzebub, you can choose to entertain us and try to torment him because I would love to see the repercussion.” Baal teased Beelzebub.
“Can you see why I dislike this moron?” Beelzebub said. “The only thing he is interested in is my downfall, but the breaking news is that you will never see it.”
“When I have seen one already?” 
“That is just a setback which I have refused to accept.” Beelzebub said.
“Please guys, let’s stay focused.” Succubus said.
Fr. Thomas came out of the chapel and walked towards the parish house as he pretended he had forgotten that Priscilla was waiting for him. Priscilla was carried away by her conversation with the boy so she was unable to see Fr. Thomas as he passed. Fr. Thomas was troubled as Priscilla failed to notice him even though he walked slowly. He was sad as he entered the house. He lay on the bed and seemed unwilling to go for the hospital visitation. He tried to imagine what Priscilla was discussing with the boy that amused and captivated her to the point that she failed to notice him. He slept off in his attempt to find answers. 
Fr. Thomas was meditating as he walked around the church premises. Priscilla walked towards him and greeted him. He stopped and turned as he heard Priscilla’s voice. Priscilla wore a mini-skirt and a sleeveless that exposed her cleavages. He was speechless and looked at her in amazement. She was sparkling and seductive as she cat-walked towards him. His heart began to beat fast when she approached him. Priscilla gazed right into his eyes in an attempt to entice him. She held Fr. Thomas’ hand and kissed his lips.   
Fr. Thomas woke up and was relieved that it was a dream. He concluded that he dreamt about Priscilla because her thought preoccupied his mind before he slept. He felt guilty to have allowed himself to admire a lady lustfully. He knelt and prayed. Nevertheless, while he was praying, the image of the naked ladies and Priscilla preoccupied his mind that he was unable to focus and correctly utter the words of prayers. He paused and looked up in a gesture to appeal to God for help as he seemed frustrated and unable to dismiss the lustful thought.    
“Succubus, I bet you got this guy big time!” Beelzebub laughed.
“If I don’t, who will; why else do you think I am powerful? I rule you from within and before you know it, I have broken you.” Succubus laughed.
“Who is he looking up to?” Baal asked.
“Maybe the ceiling!” Succubus laughed. “Because if it is God, then I can’t wait to break the news that he is on the verge of being forsaken as he would soon lose God’s graces.”
“I just can’t wait; I am going to rip him apart and I am going to enjoy every bit of it.” Beelzebub said.
“Beelzebub, I understand where your anger is coming from.” Baal laughed. “Don’t worry, you will have your shot one more time!” 
“What in the hellish demonic name are you saying?”
“I mean that no demon in your position will take the humiliation Fr. Thomas humiliated you likely, so when you are enthusiastic about devouring him, it is positive energy.”
“Baal, you are a clown and I hate everything about you? Because I have stooped so low to mingle with you, why won’t you underestimate me?”
“Always filled with empty pride; deal with it Beelzebub, you are now a shadow of your former self.”
“You better watch your back Baal because I have got my eyes on you and I am going to strike you when you are unguarded and least expect.”
“Bring it on, I am not afraid of you because I have got strong allies in the abyss.”
“Why not act a god you say you are and face your battle yourself, weakling!” 
“It is called self-awareness and that hasn’t made me afraid of you. After all, I have got Succubus at my back.”
“Leave Succubus out of this; it is a fight between you and me; when I am finished with you, every miscreant in hell will sympathize with you because I will reduce you to the level of the damned. Lucifer won’t recognize you as one of his own.”
“Please, you guys should give yourself a break; even though it is not part of our being, we should pretend to live in peace and harmony; I know it is impossible, but we can try.”
“Haven’t I tried enough? Do you know the magnitude of hatred I have to suppress to relate with this moron? The only thing I hear inside my head when I am with him is ‘strangle him’ and it is so loud that it is eating me up already.”
“Be deceived and follow what your naughty head says and you will be amazed at what will happen to you.”
“Did you just speak to me or someone else, because I won’t take it.” 
“Please, it is enough; let’s focus on the mission we have here please.”
CHAPTER FIFTEEN
Fr. Thomas realized that he was late as he checked his phone and saw that the time was 5:15 pm. The confession was scheduled for 5:00 pm on Saturday and he was supposed to be in the church before 5:00 pm to listen to parishioners’ confession. He hissed and shook his head as he expected Tony the houseboy to check on him when he didn’t come out before 5:00 pm. He wore his clothes, cassock, alb, and stole and rush out of his room. He looked around for Tony as he walked to the church, but Tony was nowhere in sight.  He took a deep breath as he saw twenty people in the queue waiting to confess their sins. He was surprised that they were much because there was a confession in the morning as well. Nevertheless, he was relieved to see that the altar boys had set the confessional and placed a purple stole on the confessional. He was with a stole, thus he called one of the altar boys that was discussing with his friends to take the stole on the confessional to the sacristy.
He spent about one hour listening to confession as more parishioners came in. He was fortunate that there was no evening Mass on Saturday so he intended to go inside the house and rest when he finished with the last parishioner in the queue. He dragged his feet as he walked out of the church because he was exhausted. He saw Priscilla beside the door as he came out. He regained his strength as he saw Priscilla. 
“Good evening.” He smiled as he replied Priscilla’s greeting. “You came to the church?”
“Yes Father; Father, but I waited for you when you entered the chapel this afternoon and didn’t know when you came out.”
“You mean you waited? Sorry, I stayed in the chapel longer than I expected.”
“But Father, I entered the chapel to check for you, and I didn’t see you.”
“Maybe, it is because you didn’t enter the chapel to pray that is why you were blinded from seeing me.”
“Father, that is not true.” She laughed.
“So you haven’t gone to your house since you came to the church in the afternoon?”
“No Father, I have gone to my house; I am just coming to the church.”
“Then I’m sorry, you have missed the confession.”
“I didn’t come for confession.”
“Then you should go to the chapel to pray before they lock the chapel.” Fr. Thomas presumed that she came to the church to visit the Blessed Sacrament.
“I don’t want to go to the chapel. Father, I came to see you.”
“You came to see me? Hope there is no problem?”
“No Father; should there be a problem before I come to see you?”
“No, not at all; I am only considering the time; isn’t it too late to leave your house?” 
“No Father; it is never too late to come and see you; I don’t have to be afraid when I am around you because you will protect me.”
“When I can’t even protect myself yet?” Fr. Thomas joked.
“Father, if you can’t protect yourself then we are finished in this community.”
“But I am not a law enforcement agent.”
“You are more than that; you protect us spiritually from all these witches that have been disturbing this community.” 
“When did you come to this place that you know that witches are disturbing in this community?”
“Father, I have been hearing stories even while I was in Abuja.”
“Most of the stories you hear are not true; they are just fabricated.”
“Even at that, you are our protector.”
“Please I am not; it is God that protects I am just an instrument. How are your parents?”
“They are fine; the only thing they talk about now is farming and I am tired of hearing them.”
“Don’t tell me you are lazy, are you?”
“I am not; I just don’t like farming. It is not my thing.”
“I see.” Fr. Thomas nodded.
They stood in front of the church discussing for two hours and Fr. Thomas barely noticed that the time had gone. He looked at his phone and realized that the time was 8:40 pm. Priscilla insisted and accompanied him to the parish house. Fr. Thomas had to appeal to her to go home before she reluctantly accepted to go to her house.
“I don’t know that this guy is this naïve and dumb? Is he not seeing all the signs this poor girl has shown him that she is available? All he needs is to grab her and blow his mind away.” Beelzebub said.
“That is what I expect too and our miserable story would have changed for good.”
“Please, mind your words; my story is never miserable.” Beelzebub said.
“We need to give him time to process the new reality before him; he has to convince himself that he is human and weak and God will understand when he sins because He is ever merciful; but he won’t know that sin is so sweet that once into it, it would take the grace of God to redeem him.” Succubus said.
“We won’t allow that grace of God before we will take him out; the moment he falls, everything is accomplished.” 
“Fr. Thomas, please let your guard down, that’s all we need.” Baal said.
“That is all we need indeed.” Succubus laughed.
Fr. Thomas was fortunate that he had already prepared his sermon within the week. He recalled all Priscilla’s gestures around him as she attempted to hold his hands, catch his gaze, and touch him when they were discussing. He was overwhelmed with the thought of Priscilla that he was unable to understand what he wrote as he studied the sermon he prepared within the week. He smiled at some of her jokes as he lay on the bed and later slept off.  
He sat on a chair under the mango tree as he studied the bible. Priscilla ran into the church as if somebody pursued her. Fr. Thomas stood up as he was perplexed seeing the way she entered the church premises. She was panting and unable to speak as she stopped in front of Fr. Thomas. She pointed at the entrance of the church when Fr. Thomas enquired to know what was chasing her. 
Fr. Thomas saw two boys running towards them. Priscilla went behind Fr. Thomas as the boys came closer to them. The boys demanded that Fr. Thomas should allow them to take Priscilla away. They refused to answer Fr. Thomas when he asked them questions to understand their motive; thus, they wanted to push Fr. Thomas to get access to Priscilla. Fr. Thomas grabbed the boy’s hand who tried to push him and pushed the boy. The boy staggered backwards before he regained himself after struggling for five seconds because he hit his legs on one of the roots of the mango tree while going backwards. 
The second boy flung his right hand in an attempt to slap Fr. Thomas but Fr. Thomas was sensitive enough to dodge him as he bent his head. Fr. Thomas pushed him and he fell on the floor. He hit his back against a root and felt excruciating pains. He squeezed his face as he stood up. They saw that Fr. Thomas had overpowered them. They understood that Fr. Thomas was unwilling to give them Priscilla. After all, they wouldn’t want to create a scene that would cause the parishioners to gather. They threatened Priscilla that they would catch her on her way home and ran off. 
Priscilla was impressed with Fr. Thomas and saw that he was strong enough to protect her from any danger. She smiled as she looked into Fr. Thomas' eyes. Fr. Thomas was petrified as she kissed him on his lips and embraced him so tight that he could barely breathe. Fr. Thomas woke up and was relieved that it was a dream. He lay on the bed wondering what was happening to him that lately his mind had always been preoccupied with lustful feelings. He felt something was wrong and guessed that his mind and dreams were being manipulated by demons. However, he was reluctant to accept his hypothesis because the lustful thought also overwhelmed him while praying; thus, if it were a demonic attack, his prayers would have overcome it. He concluded that it was a natural feeling that a man must experience and he would have to stay focused to contain the feelings.
“This is the first thing this guy ever said that impressed me.” Succubus laughed.
“Wow, what could that be?” Baal asked.
“He said the lustful feeling is just a natural feeling so he is going natural about it.”
“That sounds good.” Beelzebub laughed. “I’m beginning to like this guy.”
“You now like him?” Baal looked amazed.
“Is there any day you can stop being a fool?” Beelzebub asked. “You are so unintelligent that you don’t know when someone is sarcastic.”
“Please, you guys shouldn’t start again.” Succubus said.
 Fr. Thomas shook his head and hissed as he picked his phone and saw that the time was 5:33 am. He had to hasten up because the first Mass was scheduled to begin at 6:00 am. He came out of the room and rushed to the sacristy. He entered the sacristy at 5:57 am when the altar boys and the catechist were set waiting for him. He apologized to them and dressed up. 
He was unsatisfied with the sermon he delivered in the Mass as he had little time to prepare. He felt it was the worst sermon he ever gave as a priest and it was nothing compared to when he was a deacon. Priscilla sat in front and smiled at him anytime their eyes met. Fr. Thomas had to control his eyes from looking towards the left direction of the church until he finished the Mass. 
He went in for the second Mass after ten minutes. He finished the second mass at 9:50 pm. He was exhausted when he came out of the sacristy. He had to attend the laity council meeting which took one hour to deliberate on the forthcoming church bazaar and church building projects. He was hungry after he said the concluding prayer for the Christian Women’s Association to mark the end of their cloth launching ceremony. He was surprised to see Priscilla waiting for him beside the door to the parish house as he came closer to the compound.
“Your package is fully delivered unspoiled.” Succubus laughed.
“Succubus, you are the man!” Beelzebub laughed.
“You can say that again; this lady will be his new idol; anywhere he turns he would see her and there will be no escape until he tastes the forbidden fruit.”
“Forbidden fruit you say um!” Baal laughed. “I like the way it sounds; his days of holiness are numbered and we are on the lookout to end it as quickly as possible.”
“Don’t worry, you will have your revenge.” Succubus laughed. 
CHAPTER SIXTEEN
Fr. Thomas smiled as he reached where Priscilla stood. Priscilla pushed forward to hold his hand, but he was sensitive enough to withdraw backwards. He looked around to see if anyone noticed them. He was relieved to see that the parishioners were engaged in one activity or another. Some were going home; others were close to the chapel while some were around the church building chatting away.
“What are you still doing in the church?” Fr. Thomas asked.
“I am waiting for you Father?”
“Waiting for me; hope there is no problem?”
“Father, why do you keep saying that?” She came closer to Fr. Thomas and held his hand. “Should there be a problem before I see my friend?”
“That is not what I meant.” Fr. Thomas slowly pulled his hand from her hand. He noticed that she wore the same cloth and shoes as she wore when she was in the morning Mass. “Hope you’ve gone home since you came to the church in the morning?”
“Father, why did you ask?” She asked softly.
“Nothing; just that this is the same way you dressed to church this morning.” Fr. Thomas tried to dismiss the topic. 
“I can see that somebody noticed me inside the church.” She laughed.
“Hope that person isn’t me because I could barely notice you inside the church.”
“Father, you are not saying the truth because I sat in front.”
“Okay, I noticed you; case closed?”
“Not too fast Father; so what do you have to say about my dress?” She turned around.
“It is okay; it looks beautiful on you.”
 “I’m blushing!” She smiled. “It means a lot to me coming from you.”
“So you want to tell me that nobody has complimented your dress since morning?”
“They have but it doesn’t make any sense when it is not you.”
“Is it not the same compliment they gave; why is my own any different?”
“Because yours is special and makes me feel special.”
“I see; so you have been around the church vicinity since, haven’t you?”
“Yes, Father.”
“You ate before coming to church; or did you find somewhere to eat?”
“No Father, I am not hungry and I would be going home soon, so I will eat at home.”
“Okay; but I’m afraid I am hungry and I can’t hide it because my intestine seemed to be on fire. I’m going to eat else I will soon collapse.”
“Please, don’t collapse Father.” 
“That is why I have to eat; you may join me if you don’t mind.”
“I thought you will never ask.” She followed Fr. Thomas to the dining table where the cook had already served the food.
Priscilla smiled while she watched Fr. Thomas ate. She admired the movement of his mouth as he chewed the rice. She also admired the way he gently raised the cutleries to his mouth. She saw that he had composure in all his activities. However, Fr. Thomas was a bit uncomfortable and shy as their eyes always met. 
“I will be so pissed with myself if I should possess a person like Fr. Thomas!” Beelzebub said. “What a messed up weakling! He can’t even maintain eye contact with a woman. My gosh, is this how damaged a priest can be?”
“I must say I have lost the little respect I have for him.” Baal hissed. “What is this guy, or is he a real eunuch?”
“No, I don’t think so.” Beelzebub refuted the claim quickly as he wouldn’t want to think that Fr. Thomas was a eunuch. He paused for three seconds. “Is he?” 
“No, he is not. He is only trying to be true to his vows.” Succubus said.
“Damn those vows!” Beelzebub said. “He is a human for crying out loud and humans are bound to err, so what is he waiting for?” 
“Seriously, what is he waiting for, the second coming of the Messiah?” Baal said.
“We have to be patient.” Succubus said.
“But, it is annoying; I don’t expect this from a full-grown man.”  Beelzebub said.
“We don’t have options because if we want to rush everything, it would expose us.” Succubus said.
They finished eating and remained in the dining table where they continued to discuss. Priscilla told him about her past relationships and complained about men that they were unfaithful and it would be wrong for a woman to totally trust a man in a relationship. She referred to men as unfaithful wretches who were always out to take advantage of women and once they had gotten what they came for from a woman, they would abandon the woman. She spoke with so much passion that Fr Thomas had to console her and assure her that there were good men out there and she would surely find one with time. She refused to accept Fr. Thomas’ assertion as she had conditioned her mind that all men were the same. 
Fr. Thomas sighed deeply as she referred to him as a perfect man and wished he wasn’t a priest. Even though Fr. Thomas insisted that he wasn’t anything compared to being a good person, she insisted that he was a perfect person. He had to relax his claims as Priscilla seemed to have conditioned her mind to believe in him. They discussed on the dining table until it was 3:00 pm. Fr. Thomas had to appeal to Priscilla who looked relaxed and unwilling to go home to leave because he wanted to rest before Benediction at 5:30 pm.  Priscilla reluctantly stood up and Fr. Thomas accompanied her to the door. They were in the middle of a discussion when Priscilla pushed forward and hugged him. 
Priscilla hugged him when he least expected else he would have moved backwards to resist her. Fr. Thomas looked around to see if anybody saw them. He was fortunate there was nobody outside. The cook was in the kitchen and Tony was in the church vicinity. He watched Priscilla as she walked out of the parish house. He marveled at her courage. He wondered what would have given Priscilla who was a young girl of early twenties the courage and boldness to speak to him with such a vigour. He shook his head and went inside. 
“My gosh, Damn it! Why won’t this lame guy just take this girl to the other room for the boom boom entertainment? He is too dull for my liking; is he not man enough to know what this lady wants?” Beelzebub seemed irritated as he lacked patience. “Damn it, this lady wants one thing and one thing alone which is intimacy; just consummate this affair and be damned. Is it too much to ask?”
“You forget that Fr. Thomas is not just some rascal from out of town; this is a priest we are dealing with here and we have to go as far as being innovative in the game to get him.” 
“Succubus, talking of being innovative; how about we manipulate the girl to rape him; is that not possible?”
“Do you still doubt why I say you are unreasonable?” Beelzebub scornfully looked at Baal. “How can this feeble looking lady rape this masculine entity? Please if you have nothing to say, just shut your mouth and gain insight from me.”
“Don’t worry, we will get him; it is just time and patience.” Succubus said.
“Patience is not my kind of thing because I have never liked the way it sounds; it is a weak affair and I am known better than that.”
“If you don’t speak like this, we won’t know that we have the arrogant Beelzebub around!”
“Baal, is it me you are referring to? You know what I can do to you, don’t you?”
“You can do nothing; face what is before you and stop whining like a girl!” 
“Succubus, did you hear that?” Beelzebub reacted.
“Will you guys give me a space to think without quarreling? There is so much at stake here.” Succubus said.
“You have all the space to think; on my honour I won’t distract you anymore.” Baal said.
“You talk as if you have any honour left.” Beelzebub said.
“Enough please.”
The thought of Priscilla preoccupied Fr. Thomas’ mind that he could barely eat. He lost appetite for food as he tried to interpret all her gestures towards him. His heart’s beat increased as he realized that he was falling in love with Priscilla. He slept off as he lay on the bed. 
He felt somebody’s hands on his chest while he slept. He was perplexed as he opened his eyes and realized that somebody slept beside him. He was unable to recall if anybody was in the room with him before he slept. No priest visited him that he would have shared his bed with. Even though a priest visited him, he would have slept in the guest room. He jumped up as he turned and saw that the person was a lady and she was naked. Priscilla opened her eyes and smiled. Fr. Thomas looked at himself and saw that he was naked as well. He felt guilty that he had broken his vow of celibacy. He was heartbroken as he picked his clothes from the floor. He woke up and was relieved to realize it was a dream. He looked at himself to be sure that he wore clothes. “What is this? Where have I gone wrong?”
“Everywhere baby; you hit the wrong guy and you hit him where it hurts!” Beelzebub said.
“He will never know until we are done with him.” Baal laughed.
“Fr. Thomas worries too much; if I were him, I would just sit back, relax, and enjoy the show. This is a golden opportunity any loose cannon will do all it takes to have. However, what do we have here? A poor priest who wants to be true to his vows. He won’t keep the vow long enough because we are coming at him with all we’ve got; there is no escape and the good news is – after his first experience, it will be from the cradle to the grave – he will celebrate a lifetime of abundant promiscuity!” Succubus laughed.
“And the flash of it is that it would be too late before he realizes that we are responsible.” Baal laughed.
“Yeah, baby; that’s how we roll in this business; my victims are always ignorant during my manipulation stage; they are only filled with remorse when I am done with them, and by then, it is always too late.” 
“Fr. Thomas, if you can hear me, get this – there is no way you will escape this; and after this, I am going to come at you the way a starved lion devours a prey and rip your pumping heart apart.” Beelzebub said.
“So much energy for one miserable soul!” Succubus laughed.
“This is not just a miserable soul; he pisses me off anytime I think because he is all I think about.”
“To put it straight, he torments you!” Baal laughed. “Anyway, it is not abnormal, anybody in your position will be tormented after what he did to you.” 
“Look at what this shameless fool is saying; were you not shamelessly defeated too?” 
“I forgot to tell you that he defeated me with dignity.”
“Your foolishness stenches and it’s disgusting!” 
“Please guys, it is enough.”
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
Fr. Thomas checked his phone and saw that the time was 5:00 am. He stretched his joints and yawned as he stood up. He looked at the cross that hung on the wall opposite his bed and implored God’s mercy and strength to overcome temptation. He went to the bathroom where he brushed his teeth and took his bath. He wished he could dismiss the thought and admiration for Priscilla. 
He looked out for Priscilla among the congregation that attended the morning Mass but was unable to see her. He tried to convince himself to be happy that she wasn’t in the church even though deep within him, he wished she was in the church. His heart began to beat fast when he spotted Priscilla as she entered the church during offertory collection. Fr. Thomas removed his gaze when Priscilla sat down and looked towards the altar. He made an effort but failed as he tried to control himself from looking at the direction where Priscilla sat. Priscilla always smiled any time their eyes met, but Fr. Thomas would quickly look elsewhere.
“My gosh, I’m embarrassed! Isn’t this a disgrace to manhood? Somebody, anybody, please tell me that I’m not seeing this.” Beelzebub said. “This guy is not man enough!”    
“I can’t beg to differ!” Baal shook his head. “In all my years and experience, never have I seen a man that is as shy of a lady as this guy. He is even looking away; damn it!” 
“What will you have him do? He is a priest for hellish demonic sake.” 
“But that hasn’t taken his dignity as a man away, has it? He has to be confident and look at the lady straight into her eyes.” Beelzebub said. “Are you sure there will be any headway in this adventure?”
“Is somebody already giving up?” Baal asked.
“You know me better than that; I don’t break!” Beelzebub sighed. “But his action puts my reputation on the line.”
“There is no need to exercise fear.” Succubus said.
“With this amateur performance, he is exhibiting?
“Calm your nerves Beelzebub; the first stage is completed. He has been overwhelmed with this funky infatuation called love. You can see, we have broken his spirit. Now, all there is to do is to go physical.”
“Physical you said?” Baal laughed. “I like the way it sounds. I can see that our victory is near at hand; just a little patience and we will celebrate it.”
“That’s what I’m talking about baby; I can see that you are in the spirit!” Succubus laughed.
“Always baby; always in the spirit!” 
Fr. Thomas would have loved to dodge Priscilla after the Mass but Priscilla came and stood at the entrance to the sacristy after they returned to the sacristy. Fr. Thomas would have used the door that linked to the altar and came out through the church, but he saw it as immature to dodge Priscilla. He chose to confront his worst fear and hoped to defeat it. Nevertheless, he seemed excited to see Priscilla that he forgot his routine after morning Mass which was to pray his divine office before leaving the church. 
Priscilla smiled as she saw Fr. Thomas coming out of the Sacristy. Fr. Thomas smiled as their eyes met. Fr. Thomas stopped three steps away from her as he wanted to maintain a considerable distance from her. Priscilla who seemed insensitive to Fr. Thomas’ gesture took a step closer to him.
“Good morning Father.” Priscilla greeted.
“Miss Priscilla, good morning. How are you?”
“I’m fine Father; Father, you are looking bright today.”
“Are you sure there is no one behind me that your compliment is meant for?” Fr. Thomas joked as he looked beside him.
“No Father, I’m referring to you.” Priscilla laughed.
“Do you wear a spectacle?”
“No Father, why did you ask?”
“Nothing; I just wanted to be sure.”
“So you think that I didn’t look well as I said you are looking bright, right?”
“Believe me when I say that this is not how I would have said it; I would have looked for a more presentable way to say it.”
“You are funny Father.” Priscilla laughed. “I am happy anytime I am around you.”
“You have to take that back before the walls hear you and gossip about it; the only person worthy of your statement is God because He is the only one you can trust that won’t fail you.”
“And you are God’s representative on earth so it is not out of place to trust you.”
“I give up then!” Fr. Thomas raised his hands. “I am supposed to go out for a sick call, so I have to prepare.”
“Okay, Father; when will you be free so that I can come and see you?”
“Is there any time I am free? Duty calls any time and I should obey; so I can’t tell you that I am free at this particular time because something may come up.”
“Father, I will check you later in the afternoon with the hope that you will be free.”
“Then I see a lady with strong hope there; I pray I will be less busy when you come.”
“You will be less busy Father. I want to discuss something with you.”
“If it is something that concerns life and death, you can tell me now before I go.”
“No Father,” Priscilla laughed. “I will tell you when I see you later.”
“You are making me anxious now and I don’t like being anxious.”
“Father, it is nothing serious.”
“Okay, if you say so.” Fr. Thomas said as he walked towards the parish house.
“Take care Father.” Priscilla said as she watched Fr. Thomas.
“You too Priscilla.” 
“I love you.” Priscilla whispered. Fr. Thomas closed his eyes and sighed as he seemed to hear her.
“On the wrong side of whose bed did this lady wake up to gather such courage to say this?” Beelzebub was amazed.
“That’s what I’m talking about! She would have to make this statement count in a special way.” Succubus laughed.
“I’m telling you; in a special way in the boom boom room.” Baal laughed.
“And if that happens, all my wishes will come true. Today I will switch to my tormenting mood and torment the living hell out of Fr. Thomas.”
“Let’s hope today is the day we have been waiting for.” Succubus said.
Fr. Thomas was disturbed as he tried to unravel Priscilla’s motive. He also struggled to dismiss the lustful feelings that the memory of his dreams resonated with. He went for hospital visitation and decided to go to Saint Augustine’s Parish to visit Fr. Emmanuel. He met Fr. Emmanuel on the dining table when he entered the parish house. 
“You met me well.” Fr. Emmanuel laughed as he saw Fr. Thomas. “You are a good farmer.” 
“I bet I am! Hope there is more from where this came from?”
“Of course, if you can finish the whole store, be my guest.” Fr. Emmanuel laughed as he stood to embrace Fr. Thomas. “So where are you going?”
“Where else if not here?”
“No, I don’t believe.” Fr. Emmanuel shook his head. “Did something spoil in your car that you are forced to stop by to repair it; or do you want to pick something from this community and you came here to wait for the person to bring it?”
“So you think I can’t leave my place to come and see you; is that what you are saying?”
“That is not what I am saying; that is what it is!”
“Then you have a wrong impression about me because I have always wanted to come and see you.”
“That hasn’t changed the fact that you have not come.”
“But I have come today.”
“I’m yet to be convinced that this is the place you intended to come until all the facts are checked.”
“Then be my guest and bring your checklist; you will be convinced that I have come to see you after checking all the facts.” 
“Please have a seat.” Fr. Emmanuel laughed. “I believe you know what to do; so I don’t need to be the one to tell you to serve yourself.”
“I am not hungry.” Fr. Thomas hissed.
“Are you sure; because you look like somebody who hasn’t eaten for 39 days and today should be the fortieth day.”
Fr. Thomas laughed. “I don’t have the strength to fast now; I am not just hungry.”
“You can’t come to my parish and say you won’t eat; you have to eat something and if you don’t want to eat rice, you tell the cook what you want to eat and she will prepare it for you in no time.”
“Please don’t stress the cook; I am not in the mood to eat.”
“Hope everything is okay?”
“Yeah, I am fine; it is nothing to worry about.”
“It’s nothing to worry about yet you are looking like this? Bro, please tell me; what is bothering you?”
Fr. Thomas picked his hair as he looked at Fr. Emmanuel for three seconds and smiled. He looked reluctant to speak and hissed. “Just forget about it; so how are you doing?”
“Bro, what is troubling you?” 
“Nothing serious; it is just a lady in my place.” He hissed. “It’s nothing.” He tried to dismiss the topic.
“A lady in your place; what happened to the lady?”
“Nothing; don’t you have anything to drink in this place?”
“We have anything you want to drink; mind you, this place is not a poor parish like your place, so we have everything you desire in abundance.”
“Have you ever come to my place that I didn’t give you what you want to eat?”
“That is because I have been considerate; come to think of it, I hope this thing you don’t want to tell about this lady is not what I am thinking?”
“You are entitled to your opinion so you can think anything you want, but there is nothing I can’t handle.”
“You can handle it yet you are looking trouble!” Fr. Emmanuel smiled. “Hope this guy hasn’t fallen in love?”
“You are funny; me, fall in love?”
“Is it not humans that fall in love? What do you intend to do about it?”
“Do about what?”
“What else, the lady you fell in love with?”  
“I am not in love with any lady so I don’t intend to do anything; she is only clingy and I have to avoid her.”
“Bro, you better try your best to avoid her else you will see yourself entangled in something you never planned for. Except, you want to leave the priesthood and marry.”
“That will never happen.” 
“Then you try to avoid these young girls as best you can because if you give them the opportunity, they will possess your mind before you know it. It took the grace of God for me to escape from one in this parish.”
“Seriously,” Fr. Thomas looked amazed.
“Her name is Monica; it always starts with good intentions and motives; from there, they become so familiar with you that they don’t wish to leave you. She was always coming to the house and I thought she was just being a friend. I didn’t know she wanted something else. One day, I came home and entered my room only to see her almost naked on my bed. I had to beg her before she accepted to leave.”
“How did she have access to your key?”
“That is one puzzle I have been unable to figure out.”
“How did you manage to persuade her to leave?” 
“I told her that I am sick and we should meet another time; fortunately, she bought it and left after much talk. And after then, I avoided her as best I can; I changed my key and prayed more.”
“But what if the thought about her consumes you that you are distracted every time you pray?”
“You keep praying amidst the distraction because that is all you have to do. Maybe you believe more in the prayers; everything works with faith, my brother. There is nothing we will not see in this vocation, but the only thing we hold on to for survival is prayer.”
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
Fr. Thomas resolved to be steadfast in prayer having heard Fr. Emmanuel’s experience. Today was his off day so he returned to the parish 2:35 pm. He refused to spend more than an hour in Fr. Emmanuel’s parish because he wouldn’t want to disappoint Priscilla who said she wanted to discuss with him later today. 
He looked around for Priscilla as he entered the parish, but didn’t see her. He entered his room and went into the bathroom after he took off his clothes. He tried to dismiss the lustful thought about Priscilla as it reoccurred in his head. He came out of the bathroom and decided to say the rosary to overcome the feeling. 
He knelt beside his bed as he recited his rosary. He prayed twenty decades of the rosary and read psalm 23 and 35. He slept off as he lay on the bed and woke up around 5:30 pm. He jumped up from the bed as he checked the time on his phone. He felt that Priscilla must have come to the parish house and waited for him. He thought that she might be afraid to come and knock on his door when she didn’t see him. He was sad that he must have disappointed her. 
He rushed out of his room after he wore his clothes. He walked around the church to see if Priscilla was somewhere around but didn’t see her. He also checked inside the church and didn’t see her. He replied to the parishioners that greeted him and discussed with some of them for some minutes before he went to his room. He was sad that he was unavailable when Priscilla might have come around. He lay on the bed and slept off after fifteen minutes.
Priscilla came to the parish house with a short red gown that was fitting and above her knees. It was an armless top that also exposed her cleavages. She looked seductive and wore light makeup that pronounced her beauty. 
“Mamamia!” Beelzebub exclaimed as he saw Priscilla. “What is this I see?”
“I bet that angels in heaven will slip from their abode staring at this portrait of loveliness.” Baal said. “There is no day I wish to be human than today; she turns me on as if she is from out of the space!”
“This is nothing; I have dealt with ladies a million times prettier than this!” Succubus said.
“You mean this lady I see with all these endowments is nothing compared to the ladies you have used?”
“That’s what I mean; I have dealt with queens and princesses; Helen of Troy, Jezebel, Cleopatra, name them…”   
“Wow, if not for my preoccupation I would have loved to be your assistant.”
“It is not too late, fool!”  Beelzebub said. 
“What’s with this guy? Why must you always be told that this is the wrong place to vent your frustration?”
“What makes you think I am frustrated?”
“Do I need to tell you? Even the dumbest soul in hell knows you are frustrated.”
“Please, stop this; let’s focus on what we have here.”
Priscilla entered the parish house and knocked on Fr. Thomas’ door. Fr. Thomas heard the knock and woke up. He was surprised to realize that he slept off. He checked his phone and saw that the time was 7:45 pm. He stretched his arms and yawned as he stood up. He felt it was Tony that was at the door. He called Tony’s name as he opened the door. He was astounded as he saw that the person at the door was Priscilla. He was lost in admiration as Priscilla smiled. He was unable to utter a word as he starred at Priscilla. 
“Father, are we going to just stand here?” Priscilla smiled.
“Um” Fr. Thomas said.
“Won’t you invite me inside?”
“Inside?” 
“Yes, we can’t discuss here, can we?”
“Yes, I mean no, we can’t discuss here. Come inside please.” Fr. Thomas pushed the door.
“Thank you, Father.” She walked inside.
“My God, what am I doing?” Fr. Thomas whispered as he closed the door behind him.
“Leave God out of this!” Succubus laughed. “Dig your own grave boy.”
“I supposed he is familiar with the statement ‘God is dead”!” Beelzebub laughed. “This is the best place where the statement literally applies.”
“I’m telling you, baby!” Succubus laughed. “I think we need popcorn because the show is about to begin.”
“It is the only thing left because we have already caught seats in the front row.”
“We have to bet on this; I bet that Fr. Thomas is going to be nailed today; who is betting against it?” Beelzebub said.
“Who will be a fool to do that? Maybe Baal would give it a try.” Succubus laughed.
“I won’t run such fool’s errand!” Baal said.  
“Not that you haven’t been a fool all these while, I am only surprised that you are different today.”
“I don’t blame you Beelzebub.”
“Guys, please is it too much to ask that we enjoy this show in peace and quietness?”
Priscilla chose to sit on the bed even though Fr. Thomas pointed at the chair. Fr. Thomas took a deep breath and sat on the chair. 
“Don’t you think it is too late to come here? Won’t your parents look for you at home?”
“I’m not a kid Father! And it is never too late to come and see my friend.”
“Okay, I just want to be sure. Sorry, I didn’t come home on time. I believe you must have waited for me and I didn’t show up.”
“I didn’t come around; this is the time I planned to come and see you.”
“Now!” Fr. Thomas exclaimed with his eyes wide open.
“Is there anything wrong?”
“No, nothing is wrong.” Fr. Thomas stood up. “I’m sure I still have soft drinks inside the refrigerator; let me get one for you.”
“No Father, I am okay.”
“Are you sure?”
“Yes, Father.”
“You said you want to discuss something with me.”
“Yes, Father.” She stood up and walked seductively towards Fr. Thomas. Fr. Thomas’ heart began to beat fast as she approached him. “It is you I want.” She whispered in a seductive tone.
“I don’t understand.” Fr. Thomas stammered. “What?”
“Father, you talk as if you are a kid; haven’t you done this before?”
“Done what?” 
“Just relax Father, I will take you slowly.” She smiled and shifted her sleeveless sideways towards her shoulder and exposed her breast. She raised her gown and her thighs were visible. She raised her right leg and placed it on the arm of the chair. Fr. Thomas could see her underwear. 
“Please, this is not right; I am a priest!”
“That doesn’t change anything; what matters is that we love each other.” She held Fr. Thomas’ hand as she attempted to pull him up. 
“Please stop; this is wrong.” Fr. Thomas complained as he reluctantly stood up.
“There is nothing wrong with this; after all, there is confession. We can still go for confession if we consummate our friendship. I want us to be more intimate and it is only possible when we sleep together.” She said as she attempted to kiss Fr. Thomas. 
Fr. Thomas gently pushed her backwards and turned his face sideways. He took a deep breath. “Priscilla, please go home.” 
“Father, please.” She embraced Fr. Thomas, but Fr. Thomas removed her hands and pushed her. She staggered backwards before she regained herself. Fr. Thomas saw that she was relentless as she walked towards him. The best way to avoid the temptation was to find a way to send her out of the room. 
He became firm as he moved towards the door. Priscilla seemed ignorant of his motive as she followed him to the door. Fr. Thomas was fortunate that the door was unbolted thus he slightly opened the door as he held the handle. He smiled as he watched Priscilla who seductively walked towards him rubbing her hands on her breasts downwards. “Father, am I not attractive and sexy enough; be a man father and stop acting like a child.” 
Fr. Thomas stood at the edge of the door so that she wouldn’t notice that it was open. As Priscilla stretched her hand to embrace Fr. Thomas and kiss him, Fr. Thomas moved a step forward which made Priscilla think that he had accepted her demands. However, she was unaware that as Fr. Thomas moved forward, he created a space to open the door behind him. He quickly turned Priscilla towards the door and pushed her out. He closed the door and locked it before Priscilla could recover and attempt to come inside. 
He took a deep breath and sat on the floor. He refused to speak as Priscilla appealed that he should open the door. Priscilla also apologized as she claimed that she didn’t know what came over her, but Fr. Thomas wouldn’t pay heed to her plea. Fr. Thomas told her to go home. Fr. Thomas only believed that her shoes were inside the room when he saw them. He slightly opened the door and threw the shoes outside for her to pick them. Priscilla left the parish house after fifteen minutes when she saw that Fr. Thomas was unwilling to open the door. Fr. Thomas resolved that he would pray about the lustful feelings and he would be persistent in prayers, reading the bible, and engaging in spiritual activities to suppress the feelings. He knelt to pray the rosary. 
“What am I seeing? Please, tell me that this is not the end of the road.” Beelzebub said.
“Please Succubus, you have to do something.” Baal said.
“For him to have escaped this, I think I am clueless.” 
“Succubus, you can’t say that; there is something you can still do.” Beelzebub said.
“This is the only chance we have got – when his spirit is down. Everything has been designed to make him fall and I am surprised that he is strong enough to resist her.”
“She can still try some other time, can’t she?” 
“It seems Fr. Thomas has learned his lesson; it will be difficult for him to put his guard down next time. Let alone allow a lady to come this close to him.”
“It is only difficult, but not impossible, isn’t it?” Baal asked.
“I know the effort I put into this and I don’t think Fr. Thomas will avail himself to be manipulated that easily again.” 
“Are you saying you are giving up?” Beelzebub asked.
“You have to know when to quit and that is what I ought to do. Can’t you see he has resolved to become prayerful? For the record, you know that nothing torments me than prayers.” 
“Succubus, you are better than this.” Beelzebub said.
“There is nothing you will say that will make me go back on my decision.”
“Succubus, things are not done like this; if one approach doesn’t work we can still explore other options. Please stay with us on this.” 
“Once beaten twice shy; the last time a priest cast me out of a lady, I almost broke my head when I fell. This time, I used another approach to make it look natural, yet it didn’t work. I am not ready to run a fool’s errand.” 
“You can still come up with another strategy, can’t you?” Baal asked.
“Not with an upright priest like this; he is not somebody you experiment a new strategy on. He is somebody you use an already tested and proven strategy that is known to be effective. And I won’t be dumb enough to say I will possess a lady to seduce him because he will so cast me out that I may lose my memory when I land in hell.”
“So you are afraid of a common priest when you have defeated great kings, princes, and even messed up David, Solomon, Samson, and the likes?” Beelzebub said.
“These are different times; those guys at a point became so comfortable that it became a weakness. A priest is different especially one who prays even when nothing seems to be working. I can’t do this anymore.”
“What are we going to do now?” Beelzebub seemed frustrated.
“Avoid him and give him space.” Succubus said.
“Never!” Beelzebub shouted.  

To reach the author or send in your review:
Email: Igoche.john@yahoo.com
Phone No: +2348036988784



