

Impressum

Copyright © 2020 by
Oliver Markus Malloy

Oliver.M.Malloy@Mail.com

All rights reserved.

Published by
Bookmaester



Table of Contents

WE’RE FUCKED

SOCIAL MEDIA WANTS TO MAKE YOU ANGRY

SOCIAL MEDIA WILL MAKE YOU SAD

SOCIAL MEDIA CAN KILL YOU

TEEN TROLLS

ADULT TROLLS

ABOUT THE AUTHOR

WE’RE FUCKED

Dear Reader,

Let’s be honest: 2020 has been a clusterfuck so far.

This is probably the worst year of our lives. So far anyway.

Well, maybe not for you personally, but for us as a species. We’re not doing so good right now. We’re kinda facing extinction: suicide by stupid.

Have you looked out the window? Have you seen the morons out there? The covidiots? The knuckle-dragging mouthbreathers who think climate change, evolution and coronavirus are a hoax?

Thanks to those dipshits, we as a species deserve a Darwin award. Because we may just be too stupid to survive.

I’ve been saying for years that if aliens invaded us, they wouldn’t send a fleet of expensive spaceships. No, they’d send one guy with a deadly flu. 

Probably hidden in his butt. That’s why they anal probe us. 

Way more cost effective than sending a death star.

Ask Putin! He’s been poisoning people for years. It’s the best bang for your ruble.

And thanks to capitalism, you can even poison people’s minds on social media for super cheap! Just ask Zuckerberg!

That’s another thing I’ve been saying for years: social media is gonna kill us all.

Don’t believe me? Look out your window.


SOCIAL MEDIA WANTS TO MAKE YOU ANGRY

Social media is designed to make you angry. 

Sounds absurd, I know. But it’s true. Online, nothing spreads faster than things that make you feel outraged.

Not a day goes by when there isn’t some ridiculous shitstorm on social media, where someone said or did something in poor taste, and half the country loses their fucking minds and want him to die.

And that’s no coincidence.

You know how people like to call this the information age? Large online corporations use a different term: the attention economy.


“The Attention Economy: Digital products are competing for users’ limited attention. The modern economy increasingly revolves around the human attention span and how products capture that attention.”
-Nielsen Norman Group


Nothing gets your attention like when someone pisses on your leg. And that’s how social media works. They get your attention by pissing on your leg. 


“The digital world has created an outrage economy where there is money to be made if you can stand the heat. 

People are building careers out of being so unpleasant that a plethora of websites cannot resist giving them the publicity they so crave. It is fame without shame.”
-Financial Times


We’ve all heard people say things like: “It was a trainwreck. I couldn’t look away.”

That’s how social media works. It’s a trainwreck. A freak show. And the biggest freak gets the most views, because people can’t look away.

As soon as the drama starts in the comments section, someone replies with a popcorn meme, because people looove online drama.







See what I mean? People love drama. That’s what makes social media so addicting. Not other people’s shitty photos of their lunch. No, other people getting punched in the dick. Or Karen calling the cops. That’s the shit that goes viral instantly. The things that make us angry. And then we share it, to tell everyone how we offended we are by it.

The giant tech companies are in a battle to the death, for your attention. It’s almost like the gods in American Gods. The more people believe in a god, the more powerful the god is. But if everyone stops believing in a god, he ceases to exist.

Social media works the same way. A social media company’s power and significance in popular culture is based entirely on how many people pay attention to it. 

If no one pays attention to it, it dies. That’s why Google Plus is dead now. 

And remember MySpace? It used to be the 800 pound gorilla. But then people suddenly stopped paying attention to it. Now MySpace has become totally irrelevant. You never hear anyone ever talk about it anymore, except to make fun of how popular it used to be a long time ago, and how nobody cares about it anymore now.

Meanwhile everyone always talks about Twitter. Twitter this and Twitter that. But when you look at the total number of users, Twitter isn’t even that big. It’s tiny compared to Facebook. 

But Twitter is in the news every single day, because a lot of famous people use it. And ordinary people love to be outraged by something a famous person wrote, because it gives ordinary people the opportunity to feel superior to the famous person.

Think about it… Can you think of one positive story about Twitter? No. All the viral stories about Twitter are always bad stories. It’s always something outrageous a celebrity said, or something outrageous a giant corporation did, or an outrageous lie by Trump.

The common thread among all those viral Twitter stories is always that people are angry and outraged. And every day there’s a new outrageous Twitter shitstorm. Because that’s what people love to do online. Be outraged and judge others as morally or intellectually inferior. 

And that’s why social media provides ample opportunity for that. Everything about social media encourages trolls, because trolls are outrageous, and people love to be outraged by trolls, and then publicly announce how outraged they are. 

Why? To elevate their own status as moral apostle of all that is righteous and good.

Many people even glorify trolls, almost as if they were digital Robin Hoods. But let’s face it, troll is just a modern word for asshole. 

Trolls are nothing other than online assholes who enjoy hurting other people’s feelings from the safety of an anonymous burner account.

But by calling them trolls instead of assholes, their rude behavior is suddenly more acceptable. As if they were some sort of comedic geniuses, and there’s something deeper behind their shitty behavior. Something more meaningful than just trying to hurt other people’s feelings online for shits and giggles.

The people who claim to be highly outraged and offended by trolls, then themselves become trolls. But they think they’re the good guys, because they’re fighting for a good cause. At least that’s what they tell themselves, as they troll other people online, by acting like assholes who try to hurt other people’s feelings.

So essentially you have everyone on the right acting like trolls, to make the libs cry. And on the left everyone acts like trolls, who try to punish the people on the right for thinking politically incorrect thoughts, and daring to express those thoughts publicly.

The end result? Everyone acts like an asshole online. Social media is a giant cesspool filled with little assholes who log on for no other reason than to hurt someone else’s feelings.

SOCIAL MEDIA WILL MAKE YOU SAD

How do social media companies make money? By showing you ads. The more time you spend on a social media site, the more ads that site can show you.

That’s why social media companies employ psychologists who try to make social media sites more addicting. Yeah, you read that right. Social media companies want their sites to be addicting, because the more addicting it is, the more time you will spend on it, and the more ads they can show you, and the more money they make.

So capitalism encourages social media to be as addicting as possible. That’s why they have psychologists who constantly tweak the user interface of your favorite social network. To get you more hooked.

Social media is still a pretty new invention, and we don’t know shit about the long term effects of growing up on social media, while your brain is being manipulated by psychologists who want you to be addicted to their products.

What we do know is that social media makes kids miserable. Especially girls. Being a girl in 21st century America isn’t easy. 

Put yourself in their shoes. Imagine being a teenage girl, and all your friends are online, so you have to be online too. 

And what happens when a teenage girl goes online?

You get harassed by little assholes, who are online for one reason only: to hurt your feelings.

It shouldn’t be that way, but it is: girls are judged by their looks. And if even one hair is out of place, or your makeup is smeared, or you’re a few pounds overweight, some little asshole is gonna make fun of you and make you feel like shit about yourself.

And that’s why so many girls commit suicide, after being bullied online.

But it’s not just the daily encounters with random assholes that make you miserable. 

Even your friends make you miserable online, because all your friends are under the same pressure as you, to appear perfect.

So they curate their online profiles and carefully select which heavily filtered pictures they share with the world. Of course they only post pictures where they look their best.

And that forces you to always look your best online as well, just to keep up with your friends. You don’t wanna be the ugly duckling of your crew.

That’s why most people have a filtered online alter ego, that has almost nothing in common with the actual person in real life.



Celebrities have been dealing with this pressure to always appear flawless and perfect for ages. But at least they get paid to deal with the constant scrutiny. The rest of us don’t.

But we don’t just fake our good looks on social media. We also fake how awesome our lives are. People post things online to make themselves look good. 

They post pictures while posing in front of the Grand Canyon. Or they brag about the fancy dinner they just ate on a cruise. 

But they don’t post a picture of themselves while taking a shit, because that fancy cruise dinner gave them diarrhea.

When you look at other people’s social media posts, you only see what they want you to see: the best, most beautiful, most interesting version of themselves. The person they would love to be 24/7. Not the person they actually are 24/7.

And then, when you look at your own ordinary, normal, boring life, you seem like a loser by comparison. And that nags at you. It lowers your self-esteem. 

And then there are all those little assholes who never miss an opportunity to tell you that you suck. Trolls love to kick you in the face while you’re down.

Is it any wonder that people are miserable online?


SOCIAL MEDIA CAN KILL YOU

Some of us are better at handling criticism than others. 

I’m a writer and a cartoonist. You have to have a pretty thick skin to do what I do.

In the past, before I was able to publish things online, I had to send my stuff to magazine and newspaper editors.

And then I had to wait for them to get back to me, and hopefully they’d buy one of my stories or cartoons.

But most of the time, editors send you a rejection letter, because they can only publish a tiny fraction of the hundreds or even thousands of submissions they get every week.

They don’t have the space or the budget to publish everything, so they carefully pick the submission that best suits their needs at the moment, and everyone else gets a rejection letter.

Rejection is a huge part of being a writer, cartoonist, or any kind of artist really. In fact, it’s the biggest part of your life. For every one of your submissions that gets accepted for publication, 10, 20, or 100 of your submissions get rejected. That’s just the way it is.

There are even self-help books out there, that deal with just one topic: how to deal with rejection. Every artist has to learn not to let the endless flood of constant rejection get to them.

Actors deal with the same thing when they go to auditions. 

Most auditions won’t go your way. There is always someone who nailed the role just a tiny little bit better than you. Or they looked a little bit more like the character you’re auditioning for.

Getting the role in an audition is a little bit like winning the lottery. The odds are totally stacked against you.

Actors, writers, musicians, cartoonists and anyone else who creates something and then hopes to sell it constantly faces rejection. It’s a numbers game.

Facing all that rejection actually takes courage.

Those of us who do this kind of stuff for a living know that we shouldn’t take rejection personally. It’s just a normal part of the process.

But that is a lesson most teenagers haven’t learned yet, when they post pictures of themselves and hope for positive feedback, but all they get is sarcastic comments from little assholes.

It’s virtually impossible not to take those social media insults personally. Especially when the assholes critique you personally. How are you supposed to not take that personally? They’re literally insulting you, the person.

And that’s why so many teenagers commit suicide after being bullied online.

I think in a few years, when the people of the future look back at us and our old-timey internet, they’re gonna think of us the same way we think of the early pioneers in the wild west.

In the early, lawless, wild west, it was normal for people to shoot each other. Nowadays that’s frowned upon. We even have laws against that sort of thing now. Progress!

Future generations are gonna look at us like the early pioneers of a lawless online world. The wild web.

Future generations will find it hard to comprehend that we allowed people to roam around anonymously, and cause all sorts of mischief and misery, while hiding behind silly online usernames.

I think it’s inevitable that in the future, there will no longer be any anonymity online. 

You don’t get to drive around on the streets anonymously. Your car has a license plate, so that you can be held accountable, if you act like a road raging psychopath.

The same will be true for the web of the future. Every person will have a unique ID when they log on, and that ID will identify them on every site. 

And if you act like a toxic little asshole, and a teenage girl kills herself after you bullied her, you’re gonna get in trouble. As you should.

Watch how quickly trolls will be a thing of the past, just like wild west gunslingers and duels at high noon are now a thing of the past.

The internet of the future will be a lot more civilized and polite than it is now. People will no longer feel like they can act like little shits online. 

They will behave online exactly the same way they behave in real life, because they will face exactly the same consequences if they misbehave online or in real life.

That’s bad news if you’re a shitty little troll and your entire personality is based on hurting random people online just to make yourself feel better about your own miserable little existence.

But if you’re a normal human being, you’ll find the internet of the future, without trolls, to be a lot more pleasant and uplifting.

Social media isn’t gonna be an addicting death trap for suicidal teenagers anymore.

Until then you’re gonna have to put on your big girl panties and tough it out. You’re gonna have to develop a thick skin and learn not to take troll insults to heart.

I think schools should teach kids how to handle social media. I know they already tell kids not to post their personal info online, so they fall victim to pedo pervs.

But I think schools should also explain to teens how to ignore trolls and not let little assholes hurt their feelings.

Always remember: no matter how personal the attack feels to you, it’s not really about you. The troll isn’t hurting your feelings because you’re a bad person or somehow inferior.

Trolls randomly pick total strangers to hurt, because it makes them feel better about themselves.

Remember, most trolls are teens too. And they are just as frustrated, depressed and jealous when they see pretty girls post pretty selfies, or when people post pictures of their amazing real life adventures. 

Teen trolls look at their own shitty lives, and compared to all the cool stuff other people post, their own lives look painfully dull and lame.

Some teens kill themselves because they get so depressed online. Others lash out and become trolls. They try to punish everyone who makes them feel inferior. They try to elevate themselves by tearing you down. 

That’s the one and only reason why a troll trolls you: to make him feel better about himself, by tearing you down and making himself feel superior.

As you get older, you’ll learn that all trolls hate themselves way more than they hate you. People who are happy with their own lives don’t waste a minute of their lives trying to tear others down. 

Only miserable people try to make others miserable online. Misery loves company.


TEEN TROLLS

I’ve been online for a lot longer than most other people. 

As a teenager in the early 90s, I was a hacker. My friends and I lived online, when most people didn’t even know yet that there was an “online.” 

We played video games, long before it became mainstream. We thought we were the kings of the world, with our steampowered 8-bit computers.

And even back then, in those prehistoric days of the computer age, there were online trolls. I learned to deal with them before most of today’s trolls were even born. And nothing much has changed in the last 30 years.

The most important thing to remember when a troll attacks you online is that they only have as much power over you as you give them. The only thing they can do to you is hurt your feelings. 

If you don’t allow them to hurt your feelings, they’re powerless. There’s nothing they can do to you. 

Why would you allow yourself to be affected by the opinions of hateful strangers who don’t know you and never even met you? Who cares what some random nobody thinks about you? 

I live by a simple rule that makes me impervious to criticism from random online strangers:

The people who know me and love me matter. The people who don’t know me and don’t love me don’t matter.

I don’t give a flying fuck if some little dipshit suddenly leaves me a nasty comment online and tells me that I suck and I should kill myself. That troll’s opinion is utterly meaningless and insignificant to me.

That’s the same reason why many actors don’t read reviews of their movies, because they learned not to give a shit about critics who think it’s their job to tear down actors and their movies.

Sure, trolls are at an advantage because you’re probably using your real name and your real social media account, while these little cowards hide behind anonymous fake names.

That puts you at a disadvantage. And that’s why you should never use your real name or any real info on social media. Because every little bit you reveal about yourself is gonna end up being used as ammo in the hands of a troll who wants to hurt your feelings.

If you proudly post a picture of a cake you baked, some troll is gonna comment that the cake looks like shit and probably tastes even worse.

Not because your cake is actually bad, but simply because the troll is a shitty, miserable little person, and he wants you to be just as miserable as he is.

Don’t believe me? Look at any rating site, like Yelp. No matter what you look up, you’re gonna find thousands of negative reviews by little assholes.

People love their iPhones. But if you look them up online, you’re gonna find thousands of negative reviews about Apple and iPhone. 

The last time I checked, the online rating for my local Apple store was a lousy 2.8. And when I checked the nearest Apple stores in other neighborhoods, they all had bad ratings too. 

Not because they’re actually bad stores. The people who leave bad ratings are the same kind of people who will kick your sand castle at the beach, simply because you were proud of it.

If you go by the thousands of online “reviews” written by hateful jealous little trolls who can’t afford an iPhone, the iPhone is the worst phone ever made. 

Do you think the people who created the iPhone lose any sleep over that? I doubt it. They have a thick skin. They know that no matter what you create, and no matter how good it is, little assholes will shit all over it online, because that’s why people go online. To shit on others.

So don’t feel bad when a troll attacks you. It says more about them than about you.

ADULT TROLLS

There’s nothing sadder than a teen troll, except an adult troll. 

The adult variety is just as pathetic and miserable as teen trolls, but even dumber. 

Adult trolls actually have a reason when they attack you. They like to attack people who post inconvenient facts.

Some of these adult trolls are genuine stalkers, who will follow you around online, and keep harassing you. They think this is somehow “winning.”

They think if you post information they don’t like, you’re their enemy. Even if you didn’t even know they existed, until they started harassing you out of the blue.

They think harassing you day after day is somehow a win for Team Troll.

Did you see the movie Idiocracy? That’s where we’re headed. If we’re not there already.

In the movie, a pretty average guy is frozen and wakes up a couple of centuries later. And suddenly he’s the smartest person on the planet, because everyone else has gotten dumber and dumber, from generation to generation.

Sometimes it feels like Idiocracy is a documentary, when I look at the idiotic things people post online. 

Spectacularly stupid people used to be kept in check by their more reasonable neighbors. The neighbors kept an eye on the village idiot, and made sure the idiot didn’t set himself on fire, or burn down the village.

In the past, being the village idiot was a pretty lonely job, and they couldn’t do all that much damage.

But nowadays, thanks to the internet, all the village idiots all over the world can talk to each other on social media. They form village idiot clubs, and village idiot Facebook groups. 

Of course they don’t call themselves village idiots. They call themselves flat-earthers and anti-vaxxers.

And the more village idiots join a social media group, the more convinced they are that their idiotic ideas and conspiracy theories must be true: “Look at how many other people think evolution is a hoax! It must be a hoax!”

That makes as much sense as saying: “Eat more shit! 100 billion flies can’t be wrong.”

They’re like Dumb and Dumber on steroids.

Village idiots don’t know how much stuff they don’t know. They don’t even know that other people know more about a topic than they do. 

Every village idiot thinks he’s an expert on every topic, because he has no idea how much more stuff actual experts know about that topic.

That’s why village idiots hate experts. They think it’s unfair that the knowledge of an expert is valued higher than the clueless opinion a village idiot pulls out of his ass. They think their clueless opinion is just as valid as the expert opinion who studied a topic for years.



This is why village idiots are convinced evolution isn’t real. Because they don’t even know how much evidence there is for evolution. 

They simply assume that if they don’t understand how evolution works, then no one knows how evolution works. They can’t even imagine the possibility that someone is smarter than they are. They think it’s impossible that experts on evolution know more about evolution than a clueless village idiot, who can’t even spell evolution.

And eventually an online cluster of village idiots grows so large, they actually have political influence. Suddenly the dumbest of the dumb make policy decisions that affect us all.

And that’s where their idiocy becomes a threat to the survival of the human race.

Take global warming for example. It’s a well-documented fact. But the club of global-warming-denying village idiots doesn’t know it’s a fact. They think it’s just some random bullshit story that you can either believe or not believe. 

In fact, the village idiots who don’t believe in global warming think they’re superior to the “sheep” who know about the scientific evidence of global warming.

Village idiots hate science, because they don’t know what it is. They think it’s some sort of religion. I’m not kidding. Village idiots literally refer to science as a religion.

And when clueless village idiots vote for village idiot politicians, soon they can do some real damage.

There is an increasing number of weather-related catastrophes happening all over the world. But village idiots don’t know about it, because they don’t watch actual news. 

They just watch village idiot propaganda, and that propaganda tells them all day every day, that global warming is just a hoax.

So when a village idiot accidentally stumbles upon a news report about yet another catastrophe, the village idiot will just ignore it or proclaim that it must be a hoax.

And all the other village idiots agree with him.

So there!

Unfortunately global warming is just one of many examples. 

There are dozens of other examples, where the idiocy of the United Front of Village Idiots is literally a danger to the survival of the human species.

And that’s how social media is gonna end up killing us all. 

Social media amplifies the voices of village idiots, and they’re gonna get us all killed with their stupidity on steroids.


Tell a friend about this book! :)


___

Contact the author:

Oliver.M.Malloy@Mail.com

___

Social Media:

www.Malloy.rocks

___

Want to get an email when his next book comes out?

Join Oliver’s Mailing List



